remove the rear underhood apron . see underhood apron rear .
connect a 12v support charger to make sure power is not lost during the software reinstall .
verify that network connectivity is available to the vehicle by the words `` 3g '' , `` 4g '' , `` lte '' , or the wifi icon appearing in the upper right corner of the touchscreen .
enable service mode . see service mode .
touch controls , and then touch service mode .
touch software reinstall , and then touch request .
within 15 minutes , the yellow clock icon should appear in the upper right corner of the touchscreen . note if the clock icon does not appear within 15 minutes , the vehicle 's network connectivity might be unreliable .
touch the yellow clock icon , and then touch install now .
verify that the software reinstallation was successful and that release notes are displayed . if the reinstallation failed , repeat from step 6 . if the reinstallation succeeded , and the reinstallation was performed as one step of another service procedure , return to that procedure . if the reinstallation succeeded , and the reinstallation was performed as a standalone procedure , continue to the next step .
disable service mode . see service mode .
visually inspect the charge handle to confirm that there is a stuck deadfront present .
disconnect the 12v support charger .
grip the base of a 1/16 in or 2 mm drill bit using locking pliers .
connect the usbcan dongle to a laptop that is equipped with toolbox .
install the rear underhood apron . see underhood apron rear .
open all doors and windows .
remove the 2nd row lower seat cushion . see seat cushion lower 2nd row .
refer to the procedure to remove the hv battery center rail ski for rear wheel drive vehicles . see ski center rail hv battery .
use the soldering iron and heat tooling kit to apply heat to the tip of the drill bit . continue applying heat until the tip of the drill bit is glowing red . warning refer to the soldering iron manufacturer 's instructions for proper usage , warnings , and cautions prior to use . warning the soldering iron , drill bit , and adjacent areas will be extremely hot . caution wear appropriate personal protective equipment , including safety glasses when performing this procedure .
open the trunk .
refer to the procedure to remove the hv battery center rail ski for dualmotor vehicles . see ski center rail hv battery .
raise and support the vehicle . see raise vehicle 2 post lift .
connect the chademo can programming connector to the usbcan dongle .
move the driver seat and front passenger seat fully forward .
refer to the procedure to install the hv battery center rail ski for rear wheel drive vehicles . see ski center rail hv battery .
carefully insert the tip of the heated drill bit into the charge handle so that the drill bit penetrates the stuck deadfront . hold the drill bit in the deadfront for at least 20 seconds . caution to avoid damaging the charge handle , avoid touching anything except for the stuck deadfront .
open the charge port door .
refer to the procedure to install the hv battery center rail ski for dualmotor vehicles . see ski center rail hv battery .
remove the fresh intake duct . see duct fresh intake .
connect the chademo can programming connector to an external 12v power supply .
connect the lv maintainer to the vehicle . see lv maintainer .
open all four doors note latch rear doors to prevent accidental closing
open all the doors and fully lower all the windows .
open all doors and lower the windows .
open all the doors and lower all the windows .
disconnect 12v power . see 12v/lv power .
carefully remove the deadfront from the charge handle by firmly pulling the drill bit out from the charge handle . discard the deadfront . note it might be necessary to unscrew the deadfront from the drill bit .
connect the chademo can programming connector to the chademo charging adapter .
lift up on the lv battery connector locking tab , slide the black connector shroud to release , and then pull up on the connector to disconnect from the lv battery .
lower all the windows
move the front seats fully forward .
open the hood .
open the hood , trunk and charge port door .
open the trunk .
perform the vehicle electrical isolation procedure . see vehicle electrical isolation procedure .
visually confirm that the deadfront is completely removed from the charge handle .
open the lh doors and lower all the windows .
move lh front seat forward
remove the charge port ecu . see ecu charge port sensor radar front .
open the charge port door .
remove 2nd row seat cushion . see seat cushion lower 2nd row .
remove the mid aero shield panel . see panel aero shield mid .
remove the front aero shield panel . see panel aero shield front .
click enable .
while pressing the lh and rh tabs towards the lh side of the vehicle , lift the front edge of the seat cushion to partially release the cushion .
move rh front seat forward
open all four doors and lower the windows .
disconnect 12v/lv power . see 12v/lv power .
remove the trunk garnish . see garnish trunk .
remove the rear hv battery skid plate . see skid plate hv battery rear .
perform the charge port voltage check procedure . see charge port voltage check .
locate the center ski to a/c compressor harness connectors near the front of the hv battery .
open all four doors and lower the lh front window .
ensure the vehicle is not actively charging . warning do not perform this procedure while the vehicle is charging .
perform a charge port voltage check . see charge port voltage check .
perform the charge port voltage check procedure . see charge port voltage check .
remove 2nd row seat cushion and disconnect harness note 2x tabs , 2x connectors , press tab toward lh side of vehicle on each side to release front edge of seat cushion
release the tab on the rh side of the 2nd row lower seat cushion to release the rh front edge of the cushion from the vehicle , and then use the 12v cap to prop the lower cushion .
reinstall the vehicle firmware . see software reinstall .
using a heat gun , heat up the adhesive backing on the sensor target . caution do not use excessive heat as it will damage the charge port door . remain three to five inches from contacting the surface .
perform the charge port voltage check . see charge port voltage check .
remove the trunk floor trim . see trim floor trunk .
release the clips that attach the rh inner hv battery return hose to the hv battery .
open all four doors .
lift the hv cap straight up from over the dc input connector on the lh side of the penthouse , and then remove the hv cap from the vehicle .
on each of the 2 connectors , pull the red locking tab away from the connector body , and then press down on the green locking tab to disconnect the connector .
click the start/play button and follow the onscreen instructions .
open the rear trunk .
remove the lh trunk side trim . see trim side trunk lh .
remove the lh rear sill panel trim . see trim sill panel rear lh .
apply masking tape around the charge port area .
open trunk from exterior switch
set the insulation multimeter to measure dc voltage .
using a plastic trim tool , remove the inductive sensor target . note use one hand to hold the charge port door in place while using the trim tool to remove the inductive sensor .
remove the trunk sill trim panel . see trim sill trunk .
position a coolant drain under the rear drive unit inverter .
remove the 2nd row lh seat back . see seat back 2nd row lh .
release the hv connector bracket from the stud near the lh side of the firewall .
pull the tag down through the lh trunk wall opening to release the charging cable from the charge port .
release the locking tabs from the charge port low voltage connectors , and then disconnect the connectors from the charge port . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector . tip : gently lift the black connector tab in order to remove the white locking tab from the 12pin low voltage connector .
move the driver and front passenger seats fully forward .
insert a small flat head screwdriver on the gap between the hinge cover and the charge port door , and then push the hinge cover slightly downwards , as shown . note the hinge cover will be destroyed during the removal of the charge port door . a new hinge cover will be supplied with the new charge port door .
open hood
put on safety glasses , high voltage insulating gloves , and leather glove protectors .
use ipa wipes to clean the sensor target cavity . caution do not try to remove left over adhesive . do not apply the ipa to the exterior surface of the door because it may lead to damage . apply only enough ipa to dampen the cloth . the wipe should be quick and evaporate from the surface within seconds . allow the ipa to dry before installing sensor target .
remove the charge port safety cap . see safety cap busbar charge port to hv battery .
release the push clips that attach the rear of the lh trunk side trim to the vehicle .
release the clip , disconnect the rear drive unit inlet hose from the inverter coolant coupling , and then immediately plug both fittings .
release the clips that attach the low voltage electrical harness to the charge port to hv battery harness bracket at the penthouse .
release the clips that attach the center ski to a/c compressor harness to studs on the rh side of the firewall .
touch the yellow clock icon , and then touch install now . note the lvbms is inside the lv battery , and because the lv battery is disconnected during the redeploy , the lvbms is not discoverable , and therefore is considered missing . consequently , the firmware redeploy is incomplete , and it fails with the status `` late_failure '' . additionally , alert `` vcfront_a476_lvbmsmia '' might be seen . this is all normal , and will be rectified in later steps .
remove the charging cable from the charge port . warning do not attempt to remove the charge cable while simultaneously pulling the release cable . always pull the release cable before attempting to remove the charge cable from the charge port .
release the clip that attaches the low voltage electrical harness to the charge port busbar .
disconnect the low voltage charge port connector from the charge port ecu .
remove the hinge cover : insert a miniature 6 in pick with a 90 degree tip under the hinge cover , and then break off the upper section of the hinge cover , as shown . use a set of needle nose pliers to completely remove the hinge cover . caution do not let any hinge cover fragments fall into the hinge opening .
remove rear apron note 12x clips
use the insulation multimeter with slim test probes to check voltages at charge port terminals b+ and b . warning if the voltage reading is greater than 10v , the hv battery contactors are closed or welded . stop this procedure and escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate .
remove the protective backing from inductive sensor target .
push the manual release cable out of the retaining clip .
release the clip that attaches the low voltage electrical wiring harness to the charge port closeout panel .
disconnect the electrical connector from the puddle lamp .
release the clip that attaches the rear drive unit inlet hose to the hv basttery to rear drive unit harness bracket .
remove the bolts that attach the charge port to hv battery harness bracket at the penthouse , and then remove the bracket from the vehicle .
lower the vehicle to a comfortable working height .
press the lv battery electrical connector down onto the lv battery , slide the black connector shroud to engage , and then push down the connector locking tab to secure the connector to the lv battery . note if the locking tab does not seat , the connector or connector shroud is not fully engaged .
close the rear trunk .
remove the charge port busbar fastener cover from the charge port assembly .
remove the lh 2nd row seat back . see seat back 2nd row lh .
remove the screws that attach the charge port door to the hinge , and then remove the charge port door from the vehicle .
open charge port door
measure 8 mm from the tip of the 4mm0.75 tap , and then use a paint pen to mark a ring around the threads of the tap .
remove the lh 2nd row seat side bolster . see bolster side seat 2nd row lh .
attach the insulation multimeter ground connector to the lh rear door latch striker .
install the inductive sensor target onto the charge port door . note make sure to orient the sensor properly . press and hold the sensor in place for 10 seconds to ensure adhesion .
release the charge port manual release cable clip from the carrier assembly .
release the tabs around the charge port closeout panel , and then remove the panel from the vehicle .
release the lh trunk side trim from the trunk carpet , pull the trim back to gain access to the charge port ecu , and then tuck the carpet under the trim . note carefully position the trim to avoid excessive creasing .
release the clip that attaches the rear drive unit inlet hose to the hv battery .
slide the release to unlock the dc input connector handle of the charge port to hv battery harness from the secured position .
release the clip that attaches the center ski to a/c compressor harness to the front harness guide cover . caution do not pull on the hv harness while releasing this clip . tip : this clip is near the rh strut tower .
disconnect the lv maintainer from the vehicle . see lv maintainer .
remove the nuts that attach the charge port busbars to the charge port . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket ¼ in std flex head ratchet ¼ in torque wrench
position the charge port door onto the hinge , and then install the screws that attach the charge port door to the hinge . 1 nm
power off vehicle from center display note via controls > safety & security > vehicle power > power off
attach the tap to a tap handle or tap wrench .
put the lh 2nd row seat back in the vertical position .
use the insulation multimeter to check voltages at b+ and ground . warning if the voltage reading is greater than 10v , the hv battery contactors are closed or welded . stop this procedure and escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate .
connect 12v power . see 12v/lv power .
remove the trunk sill trim . see trim sill trunk .
pry out the edge clip that attaches the manual release cable to the charge port assembly .
remove the bolt that attaches the charge port electrical ground to the body .
disconnect the 3 electrical connectors from the charge port ecu .
move the end of the rear drive unit inlet hose between the rear drive unit and rear subframe , and then down and out between the hv battery and rear subframe . caution do not kink the hose .
fully raise the handle on the dc input connector .
release the clips that attach the a/c compressor hv harness to the strut tower support brace . caution do not pull on the hv harness
disconnect the logic connector cap from the high voltage controller .
remove the bolts and clip that attach the edge support bracket to the vehicle , and then remove the bracket from the vehicle . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 4 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
use the bump stop removal tool to remove the lh trunk stop . caution do not use other tools to pry at the trunk stop as this could damage the taillight or trunk stop .
align the hinge cover detent with the hinge cutout , as shown , and then snap the hinge cover closed . note check that the hinge cover is flush with the hinge
disconnect 12v negative terminal note 1x nut , 10mm , 6 nm , ensure the vehicle is in park , climate control system is off , and vehicle is not charging before disconnecting 12v
use rightangle needle nose pliers to prevent the charge port pin deadfront from turning , and then thread the tap into the deadfront , up to the paint mark .
remove the bolts that attach the charge port harness bracket at the penthouse .
use the insulation multimeter to check voltages at b and ground . warning if the voltage reading is greater than 10v , the hv battery contactors are closed or welded . stop this procedure and escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate .
move the front seats to the original positions .
note the position of the rocker arm , and then carefully separate the rocker arm from the latch actuator assembly .
remove the bolts that attach the charge port assembly to the body .
remove the bolt that attaches the charge port ecu to the body . 5.5 nm
release the clip that attaches the low voltage electrical harness to the rear drive unit inverter .
remove the dc input connector from the penthouse dc input header .
release the connector locking tab , and then disconnect the hvil connector near the lh front strut tower . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector .
remove the clips that attach the low voltage electrical harness to the vehicle , and then set the harness aside .
carefully pull back the trunk trim carpet to expose the taillight , and then disconnect the electrical harness from the taillight connector . caution if the connector has a red locking tab : do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector .
reconnect 12v power . see 12v/lv power .
remove 12v cap from penthouse note 1x cap
remove the tap handle or tap wrench from the tap .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the charge port harness bracket at the penthouse , and then remove the bracket from the vehicle .
if all previous voltage readings were less than 10v , return to the procedure that specified the charge port voltage check .
verify that the charging system is operating correctly . note use the customer 's charging equipment if available . ensure all charging adapters are present .
remove the white locking tab , and then disconnect the logic connector from the charge port .
remove the manual release cable from the vehicle .
remove the bolt that attaches the charge port bracket to the body .
slide the charge port ecu to the right to release the tabs that attach the ecu to the body , and then remove the ecu from the vehicle .
disconnect the low voltage electrical harness from the rear drive unit inverter connector .
release the clip that attaches the charge port to hv battery harness to the lh lower cpillar .
release the connector locking tab , and then disconnect the low voltage electrical connector from the a/c compressor . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector .
disconnect the lh trunk task light electrical connector .
remove the bolt that closes the charge port busbar access door at the penthouse hv header , and then open the access door . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket ¼ in std flex head ratchet ¼ in torque wrench
release the clips that attach the charge port electrical harness to the body . note pull the charge port away from the body for access .
remove the nuts that attach the taillight to the body . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 8 mm 12point deep socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench
disconnect the hvc logic connector and install logic cap note 1x connector , 1x cap , release locking tab then push the handle downward to release connector
carefully chuck the tap into a battery powered drill .
push the locking tab upward , and then disconnect the ac cable from the charge port .
release the clips that attach the charge port electrical wiring harness to the body . note pull the charge port away from the body for access .
reinstall the vehicle firmware . see software reinstall . note once the new ecu is installed , immediately start the software reinstall , as delays might cause excessive 12v/lv battery drain .
remove the bolt that attaches the hv battery to rear drive unit harness bracket to the rear drive unit inverter .
singlephase charge ports : remove the white locking tab from the black 12pin low voltage charge port connector , and then simultaneously release the connector and safety cap to disconnect the connector from the charge port . caution gently lift the black connector tab in order to remove the white locking tab from the 12pin low voltage connector . remove the charge port busbar safety cap from the charge port assembly .
release the clip that attaches the a/c compressor low voltage harness to the a/c compressor hv harness bracket .
touch the yellow clock icon , and then touch install now . note during this second redeploy , the lv battery is connected and the lvbms is discoverable , and so the redeploy should complete successfully . if it does not , or the status `` late_failure '' or alert `` vcfront_a476_lvbmsmia '' is displayed , investigate why .
release the clip that attaches the edge of the trunk carpet , move the lh trunk side trim aside , and then tuck the carpet under the trim . caution be careful not to cause excessive creasing .
release the locking tab from the charge port low voltage connector , and then disconnect the connector from the charge port . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector .
remove the bolts that attach the charge port busbars to the hv header at the penthouse . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket ¼ in std flex head ratchet ¼ in torque wrench
remove the release arm from the latch actuator . note note the orientation of the release arm before removing it from the latch actuator .
remove the lh taillight . see taillight lh .
remove the lh taillight assembly from the vehicle . tip : lift the trunk seal for better clearance .
close the hood .
remove all items from pockets and ensure not wearing metal items
lightly pull on the charge port pin deadfront and spin the drill clockwise to shear the charge port pin deadfront retention ring off , and then remove the deadfront from the charge port pin .
move the lh trunk side trim .
raise all the windows and close all the doors .
release the red locking tab , rotate the black lever upwards , and then disconnect the ac cable from the penthouse hv header .
remove the nuts that attach the hv battery to rear drive unit harness bracket to the hv battery .
3phase charge ports : use a pick to gently release the tabs that attach the safety cap to the busbar brackets , and then remove the safety cap . caution do not pry with excessive force , as doing so could damage the safety cap .
remove the bolt that attaches the hv harness bracket to the a/c compressor . 9 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
verify that the software reinstallation was successful and that release notes are displayed . if the reinstallation failed , repeat from step 13 . if the reinstallation succeeded , continue to the next step .
remove the white locking tab from the black 12pin low voltage charge port connector , and then simultaneously release the connector and safety cap to disconnect the connector from the charge port . caution gently lift the black connector tab in order to remove the white locking tab from the 12pin low voltage connector .
with assistance , lift the charge port busbars away from the hv header , and then carefully maneuver the busbars through the low voltage harness and out of the trunk . tip : wiggle the connector housing to aid with removal .
release the latch cable from the locking tabs on the charge port assembly .
disconnect the low voltage electrical connectors from the charge port ecu .
install the 2nd row lower seat cushion . see seat cushion lower 2nd row .
inspect hv insulating gloves note check gloves for damage prior to use , refer to service document tn1592003 r1 , for information on inspecting hv gloves . https : //service.teslamotors.com/protecteddoc/servicebulletins/external/tn/tn1592003_high_voltage_awareness_care_points_r1.pdf
remove the charge port pin deadfront from the tap .
set the insulation multimeter to measure the dc voltage across the 12v auxiliary battery terminals . caution if the voltage across the 12v auxiliary battery terminals is less than 10 volts or greater than 14 volts , the multimeter is not measuring reliably and must not be used . use only a fully functional multimeter .
take note of how the ac cable is routed in relation to the charge port busbar and lh body harness .
disconnect the electrical harness from the latch actuator connector .
slide the release to unlock the hv battery rear drive unit connector handle of the rear drive unit to hv battery harness from the secured position .
3phase charge ports : install the safety cap on the busbar brackets , making sure to engage the two locking tabs .
remove the rear trunk carpet . see carpet rear trunk .
pull the a/c compressor hv connector black locking tab away from the a/c compressor .
on the vehicle touchscreen , touch controls > service mode > diagnostics > battery > lv battery , and then verify that the lv battery soc displayed is greater than 73 % , and the hv battery bms state displayed is `` bms_support '' . if the above condtions are not met , investigate the connection at the lv battery . if the above conditions are met , and the software reinstallation was performed as one step of another service procedure , return to that procedure . if the above conditions are met , and the software reinstallation was performed as a standalone procedure , continue to the next step .
release the locking tab , and then disconnect the electrical connector from the charge port actuator . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector . figure 1 . model 3 shown , model y similar
remove the white locking tab , and then disconnect the logic connector from the charge port . figure 1 . model 3 shown , model y similar
remove the foam block from the busbar assembly . note note where the foam block is mounted before removing it .
disconnect the electrical connector from the latch actuator .
release the edge clip that attaches the lv electrical harness to the charge port closeout panel .
close the charge port door .
put on hv insulating gloves and leather over gloves note make sure to wear electrical protective gloves any time hioki tester is used
remove the tap from the drill .
slide the release to unlock the 3phase connector handle of the charge port to hv battery harness from the secured position .
remove all loose articles and jewelry from your person .
remove the clips that attach the ac cable to the charge port busbar .
remove the screws that attach the latch actuator to the charge port , and then remove the latch actuator from the vehicle .
fully raise the handle on the hv battery rear drive unit connector .
singlephase charge ports : install the charge port busbar safety cap on the charge port assembly . note the charge port busbar safety cap will not be secure until the next step is performed . connect the low voltage harness on the charge port , and then install the locking tab . caution carefully insert the white locking tab in the 12pin low voltage connector until it locks with the black connector tab .
using a 45degree pick , simultaneously push on the central locking tab while pulling on the outer locking tab , and remove the hv connector from the a/c compressor .
release the clips that attach the harness to the body .
remove the white locking tab , and then disconnect the dc logic connector from the charge port . figure 2 . model 3 shown , model y similar
push the locking tab upward , and then disconnect the 3phase connector from the charge port . figure 2 . model 3 shown , model y similar
perform a zero adjust of the hioki resistance meter in preparation to measure resistances later in this procedure . see resistance meter .
release the clip that attaches the actuator harness to the charge port assembly , and then carefully cut the clip off of the harness . note note the location of the clip before cutting it off .
disconnect the upper logic connector from the charge port . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector .
slightly pull on the closeout panel . at the same time , insert a plastic trim tool inwards to start releasing the lower clips , and then pull the closeout panel towards the front of the vehicle while releasing the remaining clips .
use a pick to gently release the tabs that attach the safety cap to the busbar brackets , and then remove the safety cap . note do not pry with excessive force , as doing so could damage the safety cap .
verify there is no high voltage present at the charge port on the type 2 note make sure to wear ppe when working on high voltage component , be sure to place the positive test lead on the side of the hv pin just past the plastic protective covers.measure the voltage between b+ to b . voltage will fluctuate but should never exceed greater than 3 mv . if greater than 3 mv pack contactors are not open or welded , stop work and reach out to service engineering
repeat step 8 through step 14 for the other charge port pin deadfront .
fully raise the handle on the 3phase connector .
remove the ac cable from the vehicle , sliding the cable under the body harness as needed .
install the new latch actuator to the vehicle .
remove the hv battery rear drive unit connector from the hv battery header .
install the lh trunk side trim . see trim side trunk lh .
release the edge clip that attaches the low voltage electrical harness to the charge port closeout panel .
move the center ski to a/c compressor harness bracket forward and up to release the harness bracket from the a/c compressor , and then carefully remove the harness from the vehicle .
remove the bolts that attach the charge port assembly to the body , and then release the assembly from the body .
remove the white locking tab , and then disconnect the ac logic connector from the charge port .
release the charge port manual release cable from the body clip .
install the foam block on the busbar assembly .
remove the bolts that attach the carrier assembly to the charge port assembly , and then remove the carrier assembly . note the carrier and latch actuator are removed together .
remove the white locking tab , and then disconnect the dc logic connector .
remove the bolt that attaches the charge port harness bracket to the body .
remove the nuts that attach the charge port busbar leads to the charge port assembly . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
verify there is no high voltage present at the charge port on the combo 2 note make sure to wear ppe when working on high voltage component . be sure to place the positive test lead on the side of the hv pin just past the plastic protective covers . measure the voltage between b+ to b . voltage will fluctuate but should never exceed greater than .012v , pack contactors are not open or welded , stop work and reach out to service engineering
inspect the charge port for any broken pin deadfront pieces or debris and remove from the charge port assembly with an esdsafe vacuum . note some pieces might require use of the needle nose pliers , curved surgical clamps , or a pocket screw driver to dislodge .
remove the 3phase connector from the penthouse 3phase header .
prepare the insulation multimeter with slim test probes and alligator clips .
position the ac cable in the vehicle , sliding the cable under the body harness as needed .
install the screws that attach the latch actuator to the charge port . 1.2 nm
slide the release to unlock the rear drive unit hv connector handle of the rear drive unit to hv battery harness from the secured position .
install the trunk sill trim . see trim sill trunk .
disconnect the low voltage electrical harness from the charge port ecu connector .
position the a/c compressor hv harness bracket on the a/c compressor . note make sure the hv harness bracket engages with the harness mount on the top of the a/c compressor , as indicated .
disconnect the low voltage electrical connectors from the charge port ecu .
push the locking tab upward , and then disconnect the 3phase connector from the charge port .
remove the bolts that attach the charge port to the body , and then remove the charge port from the vehicle . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
clean the charge port busbar hv header at the penthouse with an ipa wipe , and allow to dry for 1 minute .
position the new carrier assembly on the charge port assembly , and then install the bolts that attach the carrier assembly to the charge port assembly . 2.3 nm
remove the white locking tab , and then disconnect the ac logic connector .
pull the manual release cable up and away from the cable hold down clip , or pull up the cable vertically away from the charge port assembly .
release the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the 2nd row seat cushion edge support bracket .
remove hv cap from penthouse note 1x cap
install a new charge port pin deadfront onto the pin of the deadfront installation tool as shown . tip : alternatively , the following tool can be used : 3mm hex socket 6 inch extension
remove the lh 2nd row buckle . see buckle 2nd row lh .
attach the black negative alligator clip to the lh rear door striker .
install the clips that attach the ac cable to the charge port busbar .
connect the latch actuator electrical harness connector .
fully raise the handle on the rear drive unit hv connector .
install the trunk floor trim . see trim floor trunk .
release the clips that attach the charge port closeout panel to the charge port , and remove the panel from the charge port .
fully seat the a/c compressor hv connector on the a/c compressor , and then engage the locking tab by pushing it toward the a/c compressor . note perform a pushpull test to verify that the connector is fully attached .
release the charge port door grommet from the body .
if reinstalling the same charge port , clean the charge port busbar hv header at the back of the charge port assembly with an ipa wipe , and then air dry for 1 minute . note skip this step if installing a new charge port assembly , as the new charge port has preapplied electrical joint compound . tip : use a plastic trim tool to push the ipa wipe into the crevices of the charge port busbar hv header .
release the charge port manual release cable from the vehicle body .
clean the charge port busbar hv header at the back of the charge port assembly with an ipa wipe , and allow to dry for 1 minute . note skip this step if installing a new charge port assembly , as the new charge port has preapplied electrical joint compound . tip : use a plastic trim tool to push the ipa wipe into the crevices of the charge port busbar hv header .
connect the electrical connector to the latch actuator .
push the locking tab upward , and then disconnect the ac 3 phase connector .
remove the bolts that attach the charge port to the body .
remove the bolts that attach the 2nd row seat cushion edge support bracket to the vehicle , and then remove the bracket from the vehicle . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 4 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
fold the 60 seat in down position note protect the seat cushion
use a dead blow hammer to fully seat the charge port pin deadfront into the charge port pin .
set the insulation multimeter to dc voltage .
connect the ac cable to the penthouse hv header , rotate the black lever downward , and then engage the red locking tab .
install the release arm onto the latch actuator in the same position as when it was removed . note after installation , manually rotate the release arm and check that the latch actuator moves . caution ensure the latch actuator is oriented correctly , as shown below . incorrect installation can result in inability to properly latch .
remove the rear drive unit hv connector from the rear drive unit hv header .
install the trunk garnish . see garnish trunk .
remove the bolt that grounds the charge port assembly to the body . note this step is not necessary for the newer type of charge port to hv battery harnesses .
install the bolt that attaches the hv harness bracket to the a/c compressor . 9 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
pull the charge port door assembly towards the rear of the vehicle . when the door actuator reaches the rear of the quarter panel , pull the charge port downward to clear the actuator mechanism , and then pull out and away from the body to remove it from the vehicle . note manipulation of the charge port door may be necessary to fully remove the assembly .
position the charge port in the vehicle , and then install the bolts that attach the charge port to the body . 5.5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench warning make sure the harness is routed out , and the adhesive pad with zip tie is properly mounted if it is installed .
release the locking tab , and then disconnect the electrical connector from the charge port actuator . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector .
perform a torque check on the busbar studs on the back of the charge port . 2 nm note skip this step if installing a new charge port assembly . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t10 bit ratchet/torque wrench 4 in extension
position the actuator harness on the carrier assembly as pictured , and then tighten the cable tie around the harness at the same location as the old clip .
release the charge port door grommet from the body
release the clips that attach the lh body harness to the vehicle , near the charge port busbar .
disconnect the charge port door harness from the charge port ecu .
remove lh side bolster note 1x clip , 1 tab , pull outward then slightly upward to remove
repeat steps 1 and 2 for the other new charge port pin deadfront .
touch the red positive slim test probe to each of the lower 4 pin terminals of the charge connector highlighted in this illustration , and read the voltage : if a terminal voltage is less than 10v , measure the next terminal , until all are measured . if a terminal voltage is 10v or greater , stop this procedure and contact service engineering . note touch the sides of the terminals inside of the pin terminals , not the tips .
connect the ac cable on the charge port , and then slide the locking tab downward .
install the bolt that attaches the charge port bracket to the body . 6 nm
move the hv battery to rear drive unit harness down and out between the rear subframe and the hv battery . note rotate the harness as necessary to move the rear drive unit inverter connector end of the harness between the subframe and hv battery .
install the lh rear sill panel trim . see trim sill panel rear lh .
install the clip that attaches the a/c compressor low voltage harness to the a/c compressor hv harness bracket .
position the charge port door assembly into the vehicle by pivoting the assembly so the actuator mechanism clears underneath the quarter panel , and then slide the charge door forward toward the rear door . note manipulation of the charge door may be necessary to fully align the assembly to the body .
secure the charge port manual release cable in the body clip .
remove the bolts that attach the charge port to the vehicle , and then remove the charge port from the vehicle . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
apply one drop of electrical joint compound on each of the charge port busbar hv header contacts at the penthouse . note skip this step if installing a new charge port busbar , as the new busbar has preapplied electrical joint compound .
install the latch cable to the locking tabs on the carrier assembly .
pull the charge port assembly away from the body for access .
remove the clips that attach the 3phase electrical harness to the charge port busbar .
remove and discard bolster plastic bracket from lh side note 2x clips , if necessary , depress the clips from behind , this bracket may come out with bolster . discard after removal
touch the red positive slim test probe to each of the terminals of the dc connector highlighted in this illustration , and read the voltage : if a terminal voltage is less than 10v , measure the other terminal . if a terminal voltage is 10v or greater , stop this procedure and contact service engineering . note touch the sides of the terminals inside of the pin terminals , not the tips .
connect the logic connector on the charge port , and then install the white locking tab .
install the clips that attach the charge port electrical wiring harness to the body .
move the rear drive unit inverter connector end of the hv battery to rear drive unit harness up and in between the rear subframe and the hv battery . note rotate the harness as necessary to move the connector between the subframe and hv battery .
release the clips that attach the low voltage electrical harness to the body and to the rear lh wheel well .
connect the low voltage electrical connector to the a/c compressor , and then engage the locking tab . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push down or pull up on the red locking tab .
install the charge port door grommet to the body .
use an ipa wipe to clean all residue and debris from the charge port busbar leads , and then air dry for 1 minute .
if reinstalling the same busbar : remove all residue/debris from the mating surfaces of both ends of the busbar using an ipa wipe .
remove the bolts and clip that attach the 2nd row seat cushion edge support bracket to the vehicle , and then remove the bracket from the vehicle . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 4 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
release the lower clips that attach the charge port door assembly to the vehicle , then push the bottom of the assembly out , and then remove the assembly from the vehicle . note to ease the removal of the charge port door assembly : pull the assembly towards the rear of the vehicle . when the assembly reaches the rear of the quarter panel , pull the assembly to clear the actuator mechanism , and then pull the assembly out and away from the body . note manipulation of the charge port door assembly might be necessary to completely remove the assembly from the body .
remove the bolt that closes the charge port busbar access door at the penthouse hv header , and then open the access door . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
release the clips that attach the charge port door to the vehicle , and then remove the charge port door . note release the bottom clips first , push the bottom of the charge port door out , and then down to release the upper tabs . slide the charge port towards the rear of the vehicle to remove the charge port door .
fold the 60 seat into vertical position note remove seat protection
fold the lh 2nd row seat back down .
install the bolts that attach the charge port assembly to the body . 6 nm warning make sure the harness is routed out , and the adhesive pad with zip tie is properly mounted if it is installed .
fully raise the handle on the rear drive unit hv connector of the rear drive unit to hv battery harness .
release the clips that attach the charge port to hv battery harness at the charge port .
connect the hvil connector near the lh front strut tower , and then engage the locking tab . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push down or pull up on the red locking tab .
connect the low voltage electrical connectors from the charge port ecu .
if reinstalling the same charge port , apply one drop of electrical joint compound on each of the charge port busbar leads , on the side that makes contact with the charge port . note skip this step if installing a new charge port assembly , as the new charge port has preapplied electrical joint compound .
if reinstalling the same charge port : clean the charge port busbar hv header at the back of the charge port assembly with an ipa wipe , and allow to dry for 1 minute . note skip this step if installing a new charge port assembly , as the new charge port has preapplied electrical joint compound . tip : use a plastic trim tool to push the ipa wipe into the crevices of the charge port busbar hv header .
with assistance , position the charge port busbars in the vehicle . note maneuver the busbars into the vehicle through the trunk . tip : shift the rear end of the busbars upward to aid with installation .
position the charge port assembly on the body .
install the charge port door assembly on the vehicle : pivot the assembly so that the actuator mechanism clears underneath the quarter panel , and then slide the assembly forward towards the rear door . note manipulation of the charge port door assembly might be necessary to fully align the assembly to the rear quarter .
remove the bolts that attach the charge port busbars to the hv header . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
install the charge port door onto the vehicle , and then attach the charge port door with clips . note position the charge port door , then push the electrical harness through the opening and push up to attach the upper tabs , and then inwards to attach the lower clips .
remove the lh rear door sill trim panel note 3x clips , 1x guide tab , pull upward at the lower corner of sill trim to release clip from lower bpillar , then remove the remaining clips by pulling away from the body
install the bolt that attaches the charge port electrical ground to the body . 6 nm
install the hv connector special tool onto the rear drive unit hv connector .
remove the bolt that attaches the charge port to hv battery harness bracket on top of the rear lh wheel well . note the newer type of charge port to hv battery harness brackets have an integrated grounding lug .
install the clips that attach the a/c compressor hv harness to the strut tower support brace .
install the bolts that attach the charge port door assembly to the body . 6 nm
position the charge port busbars on the change port studs , and then install the nuts that attach the busbars to the charge port . 9 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket ¼ in std flex head ratchet ¼ in torque wrench
position the charge port on the vehicle , and then install the bolts that attach the charge port to the vehicle . 5.5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench warning make sure the harness is routed out , and the adhesive pad with zip tie is properly mounted if it is installed .
with assistance , align the guide tabs on the hv header with the charge port busbar connector , and then install the busbar connector on the hv header . tip : gently lift the rear half of the busbars to aid installation of the busbars on the hv header . note if positioning the busbars requires excessive force , the busbars might be bent . inspect for damage and replace the busbars if necessary .
install the clips that attach the charge port electrical harness to the body .
push the charge port door assembly electrical harness through the opening , and then attach the charge port door assembly with lower clips .
lift and remove the charge port busbar connector from the hv header . note wiggle the connector back and forth to ease removal .
install the charge port door grommet onto the body warning make sure the harness is routed out , and the adhesive pad with zip tie is properly mounted if it is installed .
remove the lh rear seat belt buckle note 1x patch bolt , 15mm , 40 nm , if the bolt is difficult to remove , use an inductive heating tool to melt the adhesive patch material , position the inductive heating tool coil around the bolt , then heat the bolt for 20 seconds , allow the bolt to cool for 2 minutes , discard after removal
verify that the vehicle charges normally .
release the clips that attach the low voltage harness along the charge port harness .
install the charge port door assembly on the vehicle : pivot the assembly so that the actuator mechanism clears underneath the quarter panel , and then slide the assembly forward towards the rear door . note manipulation of the charge port door assembly might be necessary to fully align the assembly to the rear quarter ,
install the charge port closeout panel to the vehicle . secure the panel with clips .
use both hands to firmly connect the rear drive unit hv connector of the rear drive unit to hv battery harness to the rear drive unit hv header . caution make sure that the connector fits the header squarely and tightly , and that both retention pins enter the handle .
release the clips that attach the low voltage electrical harness along the charge port to hv battery harness .
route the center ski to a/c compressor harness down against the bulkhead , and then install the clip that attaches the harness to the front harness guide cover .
secure the clips that attach the harness to the body .
position the charge port on the vehicle , and then install the bolts that attach the charge port to the vehicle . 5.5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
install the charge port busbar fastener cover on the charge port assembly .
connect the electrical connector to the charge port actuator , and then engage the locking tab . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push down or pull up on the red locking tab .
install the bolts that attach the charge port busbars to the hv header at the penthouse . 9 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket ¼ in std flex head ratchet ¼ in torque wrench
install the charge port door grommet on the body . warning make sure the harness is routed out , and the adhesive pad with zip tie is properly mounted if it is installed .
fold the lh 2nd row seat back down , and place the 12v foam cap under the seat back for clearance .
connect the charge port door harness to the charge port ecu .
disconnect 60 seat back seat heater harness note 1x connector
release the clips that attach the charge port harness located on top of the rear lh wheelwell and cpillar .
push the charge port door assembly electrical harness through the opening , and then attach the charge port door assembly with lower clips .
install the low voltage electrical wiring harness clip to the charge port closeout panel .
remove the hv connector special tool from the rear drive unit hv connector .
remove the bolt that attaches the charge port to hv battery harness bracket at the lh lower cpillar .
raise the vehicle .
install the lh taillight . see taillight lh .
attach the charge port manual release cable barrel onto the vehicle body clip .
connect the low voltage harness connectors on the charge port , and then install the locking tabs that secure the connectors . note push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the connector lock . tip : carefully insert the white locking tab in the 12pin low voltage connector until it locks with the black connector tab .
install the clips that attach the low voltage electrical harness to the vehicle .
move the charge port assembly into position for installation .
with assistance , remove the charge port busbars out through the trunk . note maneuver the busbars through the body harness , rotating the busbars as needed .
remove nuts securing 60 seat back hinge bracket to body note 2x nuts , 13mm , 18 nm
disconnect the lh taillight electrical connector .
install the charge port door grommet on the body warning make sure the harness is routed out , and the adhesive pad with zip tie is properly mounted if it is installed .
while pressing the rear drive unit hv connector onto the rear drive unit hv header , fully lower the handle . caution make sure that the handle does not bind as it is lowered .
release the clips that attach the charge port to hv battery harness on top of the rear lh wheel well and cpillar , and then remove the harness from the vehicle .
install the clips that attach the center ski to a/c compressor harness to the studs on the rh side of the firewall .
move the lh trunk side trim back to the original position , and then secure the clip that attaches the trim to the body .
use an ipa wipe to clean all residue and debris from the charge port busbar leads , and then air dry for 1 minute . figure 3 . busbar bracket design may vary
if reinstalling the same charge port : perform a torque check on the busbar studs on the back of the charge port . 2 nm note skip this step if installing a new charge port assembly . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t10 bit 4 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
position the edge support bracket on the vehicle , and then install the bolts and clip that attach the bracket to the vehicle . 10 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 4 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
align the tabs around the charge port closeout panel , and then install the panel on the vehicle
install the bolts that attach the charge port assembly to the charge port door assembly . 6 nm
position the charge port in the vehicle , and then install the bolts that attach the charge port to the body . 5.5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
remove 60 seat back by lifting up on lh side and pulling inner pivot out of 40 seat back and set onto padded work surface
disconnect the lv electrical connectors from the charge port ecu .
slide the release to lock the rear drive unit hv connector handle in the secured position .
if a newer type of charge port to hv battery harness is replacing an older type of harness in an older vehicle , prepare the rear lh wheel well by sanding off the ecoat from around the ground point .
install the hv connector bracket on the stud near the lh side of the firewall .
connect the lh trunk task light electrical connector .
if reinstalling the same charge port : apply two drops of electrical joint compound on each of the charge port busbar leads , on the side that makes contact with the charge port . note skip this step if installing a new charge port assembly , as the new charge port has preapplied electrical joint compound . note make sure the contact surfaces are completely covered with electrical joint compound . figure 4 . busbar bracket design may vary
apply two drops of electrical joint compound on each of the charge port busbar leads , on the side that makes contact with the charge port . note skip this step if installing a new charge port assembly , as the new charge port has preapplied electrical joint compound . note make sure the contact surfaces are completely covered with electrical joint compound .
install the clip that attaches the low voltage electrical harness to the charge port closeout panel .
insert the manual release cable back into the locking tab ; push down on the release back to secure it into the locking tab .
remove the lh side trunk carpet clips from body studs under 2nd row seat cushion note 2x clips , newer vehicles may not be equipped with clips or the number of clips may vary
verfiy that the rear drive unit hv connector is fully seated , and compare both sides of the connector that it is properly secured in place . note an improperly seated connector might lead to connector damage and rear drive unit problems later on .
install the charge port to hv battery harness into the vehicle , and then fasten the clips that attach the harness on top of the rear lh wheel well and cpillar .
connect the center ski to a/c compressor harness connectors to the center ski harness . confirm that the green locking mechanism has engaged by listening for the audible click .
install the trunk sill trim panel . see trim sill trunk .
install the nuts that attach the busbar leads to the charge port . 9 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
move both front seats to their original positions .
position the charge port busbars on the charge port , and then install the nuts that attach the busbars to the charge port . 9 nm note if positioning the busbars requires excessive force , the busbars might be bent . inspect for damage and replace the busbars if necessary . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket ¼ in std flex head ratchet ¼ in torque wrench
connect the low voltage charge port connector to the charge port ecu .
install the bolt that attaches the charge port harness bracket to the body . 6 nm
lift trunk carpet off isofix bars on lh side note 2x bars
fully raise the handle on the hv battery rear drive unit connector of the rear drive unit to hv battery harness .
install the bolt that attaches the charge port to hv battery harness bracket at the lh lower cpillar . 6 nm
push the red locking tab toward the connector body to fully lock the connectors .
remove the 3phase charge port to hv battery busbar safety cap . see safety cap busbar charge port to hv battery .
remove the charge port door assembly . see door assembly charge port .
put on hv insulating gloves and leather over gloves .
connect a charging cable to the vehicle and make sure the charger is powered .
position the charge port busbars on the charge port , and then install the nuts that attach the busbar leads to the charge port . 9 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
install the clips that attach the charge port closeout panel .
with assistance , position the charge port busbars for installation by inserting the busbars through the trunk . note maneuver the busbars through the body harness , rotating the busbars as needed .
remove load floor note use pull tab located at rear edge of panel
remove the bolt that attaches the charge port ground to the body . note the ground cable is green with a yellow stripe and is located at the top of the inner wheel housing .
close the hood , trunk , and charge port door .
install the hv connector special tool onto the hv battery rear drive unit connector .
fasten the clips that attach the low voltage electrical harness along the charge port to hv battery harness .
install the front aero shield panel . see panel aero shield front .
use a pick to gently release the tabs that attach the busbar retainer bracket to the busbar bracket , and then remove the retainer bracket from the vehicle . note do not pry with excessive force , as doing so could damage the brackets .
remove the nuts that attach the charge port busbar leads to the charge port assembly , and then remove the busbars from the charge port .. tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
prepare the esd kit . note refer to tn1492003 , `` electrostatic discharge tool '' . caution improper use of esd kit can result in damage to sensitive electronics .
at the charge port , use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance between the charge port busbar lead and the charge port busbar stud . also perform this test on the other lead and stud . note the acceptable resistance is between 0.050 mω and 0.325 mω . if the measured resistance is above 0.325 mω , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . note if the resistance is lower than 0.050 mω , reposition the probes and measure again . if after 4 attempts the resistance is consistently lower than 0.050 mω , the test has passed ; continue to the next step .
connect a laptop with toolbox 3 to the vehicle .
install the edge clip that attaches the lv harness to the charge port closeout panel .
fold up the lh 2nd row seat back and remove the protective covering from the 2nd row seat cushion area .
remove trunk sill trim assembly note 4x clips , pull corner upward release clip on the end the away from body for remaining clips
use both hands to firmly connect the hv battery rear drive unit connector of the rear drive unit to hv battery harness to the hv battery header . caution make sure that the connector fits the header squarely and tightly , and that both retention pins enter the handle .
make sure that the snap button connector of the ground cord is securely fastened to the esd mat .
remove the hv insulating gloves and leather over gloves .
remove clips securing trunk garnish to body note 2x push clips
install the edge clip that attaches the hv harness to the charge port closeout panel .
remove the hv connector special tool from the hv battery rear drive unit connector .
remove the busbar bracket from the charge port busbars .
remove alligator clip adapter from the banana plug at the end of the wrist strap , and then connect the banana plug to the ground cord .
connect the ground cord to a ground source , and then put on the esd wrist strap .
perform a torque check on the busbar studs on the back of the charge port . 2 nm note skip this step if installing a new charge port assembly . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t10 bit 4 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
carefully cut the cable tie from the actuator electrical harness using diagonal cutters .
clean the charge port busbar hv header at the back of the charge port assembly with an ipa wipe . tip : use a plastic trim tool to push the ipa wipe into the crevices of the charge port busbar hv header .
peel the whole grommet back to expose the charge port door electrical harness .
use an ipa wipe to clean all residue and debris from the charge port busbar leads , and then air dry for 1 minute . figure 1 . busbar bracket design may vary
disconnect the charge port door electrical harness from the charge port door . note if the electrical pins are damaged during removal , the charge port door assembly must be replaced .
install the busbar bracket on the charge port busbars .
remove the edge clip from the charge port door using a clip prytool .
apply two drops of electrical joint compound on each of the charge port busbar leads , on the side that makes contact with the charge port . note make sure the contact surfaces are completely covered with electrical joint compound . figure 2 . busbar bracket design may vary
remove the screws that attach the actuator to the charge port door assembly , and then remove the actuator from the charge port door .
install the busbar retainer bracket on the busbar bracket , making sure to engage the locking tabs . note do not pry with excessive force , as doing so could damage the brackets .
install the screws that attach the actuator on the charge port door . 0.5 nm note when engaging the actuator to the charge port door , make sure the legs from the charge port door align with the access holes on the actuator , and then fully seat the components before installing the screws .
install the nuts that attach the charge port busbar leads to the charge port assembly . 9 nm note if positioning the busbars requires excessive force , the busbars might be bent . inspect for damage and replace the busbars if necessary . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
slightly pull back on the grommet to expose the harness connector for visibility .
connect the charge port door electrical harness .
at the charge port , use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance between the charge port busbar lead and the charge port busbar stud . also perform this test on the other lead and stud . note the acceptable resistance is between 0.050 mω and 0.270 mω . if the measured resistance is above 270 mω , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . note if the resistance is lower than 0.050 mω , reposition the probes and measure again . if after 4 attempts the resistance is consistently lower than 0.050 mω , the test has passed ; continue to the next step .
install the new grommet back to its original position . note make sure the tab on the electrical harness is facing up as shown .
install the actuator electrical harness edge clip and cable tie on the charge port door .
install the busbar retainer bracket on the busbar bracket , making sure to engage the locking tabs .
remove the esd wrist strap and put away the esd kit .
install the safety cap on the busbar brackets , making sure to engage the two locking tabs .
install the charge port door assembly . see door assembly charge port .
reconnect 12v/lv power . see 12v/lv power .
touch and hold the tesla logo at the top center of the vehicle touchscreen until it flares , and then release .
use the on screen keyboard to type `` service '' into the access code field , and then touch ok . note the touchscreen is overlaid with the words `` service mode '' in red .
on the vehicle touchscreen , touch controls > software . note an image of the vehicle and badge is displayed .
touch and hold the large word `` model '' for 2 seconds , and then release .
use the on screen keyboard to type `` service '' into the access code field , and then touch ok . note the touchscreen is overlaid with the words `` service mode '' in red . newer firmware versions have a red border around the edges of the touchscreen ui .
procure a navigation update usb stick .
verify that network connectivity is available to the vehicle by the words `` 3g '' , `` 4g '' , `` lte '' , or the wifi icon appearing in the upper right corner of the touchscreen .
select actions/autodiag , and then search for `` service '' .
enable service mode plus . see service mode plus .
select actions/autodiag , and then search for `` reset '' .
verify that there is an orange down arrow in the upper right corner of the vehicle touchscreen . if the down arrow is displayed , skip to step 5 . if no down arrow is displayed , the vehicle firmware might be at the latest level for the vehicle , or no request for the latest vehicle firmware has been made . continue to the next step .
connect a 12v support charger to make sure power is not lost during the firmware redeploy .
on the touchscreen , touch the software tab , and then touch install usb navigation data update note in newer versions of vehicle firmware , the install usb navigation data update button is in the service mode tab .
select the `` service factory reset '' routine , and then click run .
touch controls , touch software , under software update preference , touch standard , and then touch advanced .
connect a laptop with toolbox 3 to the vehicle . see .
disable service mode using either a laptop with toolbox 3 or the vehicle touchscreen . touchscreen : on the vehicle touchscreen , touch controls > service mode > exit service mode at the top of the service mode menu . note the red `` service mode '' overlay or red touchscreen border is removed . laptop with toolbox 3 : run the `` proc_ice_x_exitservicemode '' routine , and then disconnect the laptop from the vehicle .
follow the onscreen instructions to update the vehicle navigation data .
when the routine has finished , close the window and exit service mode . see service mode .
close the window , touch controls and then touch software again to request the latest vehicle firmware . note if the text `` your car software is up to date as of … . '' appears above software update preference , the vehicle is already configured with the latest firmware . note if the orange down arrow does not appear in the upper right corner of the touchscreen within 10 seconds , the vehicle ' network connectivity might be unreliable .
when the update is complete , use the touchscreen to exit service mode + . see service mode plus .
touch the orange down arrow to start the vehicle firmware download . note when the download starts , the arrow turns green . after the download completes , the green arrow is replaced by the yellow clock icon . if the clock icon does not appear within 45 minutes , the vehicle 's network connectivity might be unreliable .
in toolbox , click the actions/autodiag tab , and then type `` redeploy '' in the search field .
click : service can redeploy to redeploy a subset of the vehicle firmware stored within the car computer , which is sufficient for all module , ecu , and component replacements , with the exception of das and car computer . service redeploy to redeploy the entire vehicle firmware , which is required for das and car computer replacements , and is optional for other component replacements .
verify that the firmware update was successful . if the update failed , repeat from step 6 . if the update succeeded , and the update was performed as one step of another service procedure , return to that procedure . if the update succeeded , and the update was performed as a standalone procedure , it is now complete .
click run , and allow the firmware to be redeployed .
verify that the firmware was successfully redeployed and that the release notes are displayed . if the redeploy failed , repeat from step 5 . if the redeploy succeeded , and the redeploy was performed as one step of another service procedure , return to that procedure . if the redeploy succeeded , and the redeploy was performed as a standalone procedure , continue to the next step .
disconnect the laptop from the vehicle . see .
click run , and allow the firmware to be redeployed . note the lvbms is inside the lv battery , and because the lv battery is disconnected during the redeploy , the lvbms is not discoverable , and therefore is considered missing . consequently , the firmware redeploy is incomplete , and it fails with the status `` late_failure '' . additionally , alert `` vcfront_a476_lvbmsmia '' might be seen . this is all normal , and will be rectified in later steps .
click run , and allow the firmware to be redeployed . note during this second redeploy , the lv battery is connected and the lvbms is discoverable , and so the redeploy should complete successfully . if it does not , or the status `` late_failure '' or alert `` vcfront_a476_lvbmsmia '' is displayed , investigate why .
verify that the firmware was successfully redeployed and that the release notes are displayed . if the redeploy failed , repeat from step 11 . if the redeploy succeeded , continue to the next step .
on the vehicle touchscreen , touch controls > service mode > diagnostics > battery > lv battery , and then verify that the lv battery soc displayed is greater than 73 % , and the hv battery bms state displayed is `` bms_support '' . if the above condtions are not met , investigate the connection at the lv battery . if the above conditions are met , and the firmware redeploy was performed as one step of another service procedure , return to that procedure . if the above conditions are met , and the firmware redeploy was performed as a standalone procedure , continue to the next step .
disconnect the laptop with toolbox 3 from the vehicle . see .
remove the rear subframe assembly . see subframe assembly rear .
remove the lh rear drive unit halfshaft . see halfshaft rear drive unit lh .
drain the gearbox fluid from the rear drive unit . see gearbox fluid rear drive unit .
release the clips that attach the coolant outlet hose to the motor and heat exchanger body .
use the adjustable seal puller tool to remove the lh output seal from the rear drive unit .
at the charge port , use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance between the charge port busbar lead and the charge port busbar stud . also perform this test on the other lead and stud . note the acceptable resistance is between 0.050 mω and 0.270 mω . if the measured resistance is above 270 mω , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . note if the resistance is lower than 0.050 mω , reposition the probes and measure again . if after 4 attempts the resistance is consistently lower than 0.050 mω , the test has passed ; continue to the next step .
install the charge port to hv battery harness bracket on top of the rear lh wheel well , and then install the bolt that attaches the bracket to the wheel well . 6 nm note the newer type of charge port to hv battery harness brackets have an integrated grounding lug .
raise the vehicle on a 2 post lift . see raise vehicle 2 post lift .
remove the lh rear wheel center cap . see cap wheel .
raise and support the vehicle on a 2 post lift . see raise vehicle 2 post lift .
replace the oil filter according to the gearbox fluid procedure . see gearbox fluid rear drive unit .
remove the bolts that attach the oil pump to the rear drive unit , and then remove the pump from the rear drive unit .
release the clip , and then disconnect the coolant outlet hose from the heat exchanger .
use the seal install tool to install the new seal into the rear drive unit . note fully tap around the seal install tool to install the new seal . make sure that the seal is fully flush with the rear drive unit casting .
in toolbox , select actions/autodiag .
at the charge port , use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance between the charge port busbar lead and the charge port busbar stud . also perform this test on the other lead and stud . note the acceptable resistance is between 0.050 mω and 0.270 mω . if the measured resistance is above 0.270 mω , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . note if the resistance is lower than 0.050 mω , reposition the probes and measure again . if after 4 attempts the resistance is consistently lower than 0.050 mω , the test has passed ; continue to the next step .
at the penthouse , use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance between the charge port busbar lead and the penthouse hv header bolt head . also perform this test on the other lead and bolt head . note the acceptable resistance is between 0.050 mω and 0.195 mω . if the measured resistance is above 0.195 mω , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . note if the resistance is lower than 0.050 mω , reposition the probes and measure again . if after 4 attempts the resistance is consistently lower than 0.050 mω , the test has passed ; continue to the next step .
connect the low voltage charge port ecu electrical connectors .
fasten the clips that attach the charge port to hv battery harness at the charge port .
loosen the lh rear wheel lug nuts , but do not remove the wheel at this time . see wheel .
loosen the lh rear wheel lug nuts . caution use only hand tools to remove or install the fasteners . do not use impact or power tools . caution use a 6 point socket . do not use a 12 point socket or a specialty socket .
open all doors and lower all windows .
remove the breather from the rear drive unit .
while performing the courtesy inspection , note any abnormal tire wear that could indicate the need for an alignment .
use a pry tool to lever against the rear drive unit to loosen the oil pump .
release the clips that attach the coolant inlet hose to the lh mount , gearbox , and heat exchanger body .
install the lh rear drive unit halfshaft . see halfshaft rear drive unit lh .
in toolbox , type uhf in the search tab .
install the bolts that attach the charge port busbars to the hv header . 9 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
release trunk garnish from body note 6x clips
release the charge port harness from the body by lifting up the harness reference point up and over the body .
while pressing the hv battery rear drive unit connector onto the hv battery header , fully lower the handle . caution make sure that the handle does not bind as it is lowered .
fasten the clips that attach the low voltage electrical harness to the body and to the rear lh wheel well .
loosen the lh rear axle nut , but do not remove the nut at this time .
loosen the lh rear drive unit halfshaft nut .
note the position of the driver and front passenger seats , and then move the seats fully forward .
install the breather onto the rear drive unit . 5 nm
move the vehicle to a 2 post lift . see raise vehicle 2 post lift .
position a coolant drain under the inverter .
remove the oil pump from the rear drive unit assembly .
release the clip , and then disconnect the coolant inlet hose from the heat exchanger .
connect the 3phase connector on the charge port , and then slide the locking tab downward . figure 5 . model 3 shown , model y similar
check the vehicle wheel alignment , and adjust if necessary . see four wheel alignment check .
in toolbox , select testself_ cp_x_uhf , and then click run .
close the charge port busbar access door , and then install the bolt that locks the access door in position . 9 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket ¼ in std flex head ratchet ¼ in torque wrench
open the charge port door , and then plug an unpowered mobile connector into the charge port . caution do not plug any powered charge cable into the charge port at this time .
install the lh trunk stop .
install the clips that attach the 3phase electrical harness to the charge port busbar .
remove clips for lh trunk side trim note 6x push clips , the number of clips on newer vehicles may vary
pull the rear side of the charge port harness away from the body for access .
slide the release to lock the hv battery rear drive unit connector handle in the secured position .
install the charge port assembly to the body , and then install the bolts that attach the assembly to the body . 6 nm warning make sure the harness is routed out , and the adhesive pad with zip tie is properly mounted if it is installed .
verify the charging system is operating correctly . note use the customer 's charging equipment if available . ensure all the charging adapters are present .
install the rear subframe assembly . see subframe assembly rear .
place stanchions around the rear of the vehicle to setup a safety perimeter .
disconnect the coolant outlet hose at the top of the inverter .
lightly coat the oil pump orings with clean edf2 gearbox fluid .
remove the bolts that attach the heat exchanger to the rear drive unit , and then remove the heat exchanger from the rear drive unit . 5 nm +30 deg note the number of bolts that attach the heat exchanger to the rear drive unit might vary due to changes in production .
connect the ac logic connector on the charge port , and then install the white locking tab . figure 6 . model 3 shown , model y similar
press the button on the charge handle to transmit the uhf signal . note to avoid failing the test , transmit the uhf signal to the vehicle within 20 seconds of starting the routine . note close the window once the test is complete .
install the charge port busbar fastener cover on the charge port assembly . note the charge port busbar fastener cover will not be secure until the next step is performed .
verify latch functionality by pulling on the charge cable manual release while simultaneously pulling the mobile connector out of the charge port . figure 1 . charge cable manual release
remove the masking tape from the charge port door area .
install the clips that attach the lh body harness to the vehicle , near the charge port busbar .
disconnect lh trunk side trim puddle lamp connector note 1x connector
pull the entire rear side of the charge port harness away from the body .
verfiy that the hv battery rear drive unit connector is fully seated , and compare both sides of the connector that it is properly secured in place . note an improperly seated connector might lead to connector damage and rear drive unit problems later on .
install the bolt that grounds the charge port assembly to the body . 6 nm note this step is not necessary for the newer type of charge port to hv battery harnesses .
remove the bolt that attaches the lh rear suspension cover .
remove the lug nuts from the lh rear wheel , and then remove the wheel from the vehicle .
verify that the vehicle firmware is version 2022.20.6 or later . update the vehicle firmware if this is not the case . see firmware update .
plug the female fitting of the hose , and connect the coolant pressure test adapter to the inverter .
install the oil pump into the rear drive unit , and then install the bolts that attach the oil pump to the rear drive unit . 5 nm + 20 degrees
lightly coat the heat exchanger orings with clean edf2 gearbox fluid .
connect the dc logic connector on the charge port , and then install the white locking tab . figure 7 . model 3 shown , model y similar
remove the charging cable from the vehicle .
connect the logic connector on the charge port , and then install the white locking tab . figure 6 . model 3 shown , model y similar
position the 2nd row seat cushion edge support bracket on the vehicle , and then install the bolts that attach the bracket to the vehicle . 10 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 4 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
remove lh trunk side trim
carefully route the front of the charge port harness underneath the lv electrical harness . move the front of the charge port harness under and away from the lv electrical harness , and then bring the harness upwards . note do not damage the lv electrical harness .
move lh trunk side trim back into position .
install the nuts that attach the hv battery to rear drive unit harness bracket to the hv battery . 10 nm
install the charge port closeout panel to the charge port , and then fasten the clips that attach the panel to the charge port .
remove the lh rear wheel .
remove and discard the lh rear drive unit halfshaft nut and washers . note the washers are attached to the nut .
remove the cabin intake duct . see duct cabin intake .
connect the drive unit pressure test fixture to the coolant pressure test adapter .
refill the gearbox fluid for the rear drive unit . see gearbox fluid rear drive unit .
install the heat exchanger to the rear drive unit , and then install the bolts that attach the heat exchanger to the rear drive unit . 5 nm +30 deg note the number of bolts that attach the heat exchanger to the rear drive unit might vary due to changes in production .
install the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the 2nd row seat cushion edge support bracket .
disconnect lh rear bodyside tail lamp assembly connector note 1x connector
with an assistant , remove the charge port harness from the body . caution do not damage the lv electrical harness . note have a second person hold the rear of the charge port harness as the front side of the harness is fed through and underneath the lv electrical harness .
install the bolt that attaches the hv battery to rear drive unit harness bracket to the rear drive unit inverter . 6 nm
connect the low voltage electrical harness to the charge port ecu connector .
remove the lh rear wheel arch liner . see wheel arch liner rear lh .
install the hydraulic hub puller tool onto the lh rear wheel studs , and then install and handtighten the wheel lug nuts .
in toolbox 3 , click the dashboards tab , and and type ‘ rear drive inverter replacement ' into the search field , and click rear drive inverter replacement .
close both valves p1 and p2 on the test fixture , and connect a compressed air supply line .
connect the coolant inlet hose to the heat exchanger , and then fasten the clip that attaches the hose to the heat exchanger . caution perform a pushpull test to verify that the hose is fully seated .
if the taillight is to be reinstalled , replace the gaskets from around each taillight mounting bolt and the taillight electrical connector .
disconnect lv charge port harness connector from charge port ecu note 1x connector
remove the charge port harness from the vehicle .
connect the low voltage electrical harness to the rear drive unit inverter connector .
fasten the edge clip that attaches the low voltage electrical harness to the charge port closeout panel .
release the lh rear caliper parking brake . see parking brake caliper rear lh .
hold the hub in position , and turn the hydraulic hub puller tool handle clockwise to push the lh rear drive unit halfshaft in from the lh rear hub assembly for a distance of 50 mm . caution if the halfshaft stops moving in respect to the hub , stop , and turn the tool handle counterclockwise for two turns .
fully close the regulator , and then open p1 .
fasten the clips that attach the coolant inlet hose to the heat exchanger body , gearbox , and lh mount .
place the driver and front passenger seats back to their previous positions .
position the 2nd row seat cushion edge support bracket on the vehicle , and then install the bolts and clip that attach the bracket to the vehicle . 10 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 4 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
apply two drops of electrical joint compound on each of the charge port busbar leads , on the side that makes contact with the charge port . note skip this step if installing a new charge port assembly , as the new charge port has preapplied electrical joint compound . note make sure the contact surfaces are completely covered with electrical joint compound . figure 1 . busbar bracket design may vary
install new grommets onto the vehicle .
release lv harness edge clip from charge port closeout panel note 1x clip
put the new charge port harness into the vehicle and feed the harness through the lv electrical harness . caution install the charge port harness carefully to prevent damage to the harness .
fasten the clip that attaches the low voltage electrical harness to the rear drive unit inverter .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the lh rear caliper bracket to the knuckle .
apply approximately 1 gram of molykote m77 lubricant paste only to the hub mating face on the outboard side of the lh rear drive unit halfshaft . tip : a bent acid brush can be of assistance . caution do not apply any lubricant to the halfshaft splines . if lubricant is mistakenly applied , wipe the splines clean with a shop towel .
disconnect the electrical connector from the oil pump .
set the pressure regulator of the test fixture to 26 psi .
connect the coolant outlet hose to the heat exchanger , and then fasten the clip that attaches the hose to the heat exchanger . caution perform a pushpull test to verify that the hose is fully seated .
disconnect the laptop from the vehicle .
close the trunk .
position the lh taillight studs into the grommets , and then install the taillight onto the vehicle . note reseat the trunk seal over the lh taillight .
remove charge port closeout panel note 7x tabs , work around perimeter with plastic trim tool to disengage tabs , may need to pry
with an assistant , route the charge port harness into position . have a second person hold the rear of the charge port harness as the harness is fed under the lv electrical harness . caution install the charge port harness carefully to prevent damage to the harness .
move the end of the rear drive unit inlet hose up and in between the hv battery and rear subframe , and then up and in between the rear drive unit and rear subframe .
install the rear trunk carpet . see carpet rear trunk .
remove the lh rear brake caliper from the lh rear suspension , and then allow it to hang from the body using an shook .
remove the hydraulic hub puller tool from the lh rear wheel studs .
position an oil drain container underneath the rear drive unit oil filter and oil pump .
disconnect the coolant inlet hose at the bottom of the inverter , plug the female fitting of the hose , and allow the inverter to drain .
fasten the clips that attach the coolant outlet hose to the heat exchanger body and the motor .
verify the operation of the charging system by charging the vehicle . note if available , use the customer 's charging equipment .
install the nuts that attach the taillight to the vehicle . 3.2 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 8 mm 12point deep socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench
remove bolt securing charge port bracket and ground cable to body on lh side of trunk note 1x bolt , 10mm , 6 nm
install the clips that attach the charge port harness to the vehicle at the cpillar . note the number of clips on newer vehicles might vary .
fasten the clip that attaches the rear drive unit inlet hose to the hv battery .
remove and discard the bolt that attaches the rear lh abs wheel speed sensor to the knuckle , and then remove the sensor from the knuckle .
pull on the inner halfshaft cup to confirm that the circlip is locked into place . if the halfshaft detaches from the drive unit then reinstall the halfshaft and then test that it is fully seated . caution if reinstalling the halfshaft to the drive unit : take care not to damage or displace the oil seals . make sure that the opening of the snap rings are facing towards the bottom of the drive unit . carefully push the halfshaft into the drive unit until there is an audible `` click '' from the halfshaft stub contacting the pinion shaft . there will be a slight pulling sensation on the halfshaft as the halfshaft circlip locks into place . pull on the inner halfshaft cup to confirm that the circlip is locked into place . if the halfshaft detaches from the drive unit then reinstall the halfshaft and then test that it is fully seated .
remove the bolts that attach the rear drive unit oil pump to the rear drive unit .
disconnect the laptop with toolbox 3 from the vehicle . see . note do not close this instance of toolbox 3 as it is needed later on in the procedure .
connect the coolant drain adapter to the bottom of the inverter , and direct the tube to the coolant drain .
close the charge port door .
connect the electrical harness to the taillight connector . caution if the connector has a red locking tab : push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the connector lock .
pull the manual release cable off of the hold down clip note pull the cable up and away from the hold down clip or pull up vertically away from the charge port assembly
fully raise the handle on the dc input connector of the charge port to hv battery harness .
fasten the clip that attaches the rear drive unit inlet hose to the hv basttery to rear drive unit harness bracket .
release the clip and remove the grommet that attach the rear lh abs wheel speed sensor cable to the rear lh knuckle and subframe bracket .
align the splines of the lh rear halfshaft with those of the lh rear hub , and then install the halfshaft into the hub .
remove the oil pump from the rear drive unit using a flat head screwdriver at two different locations , and then allow the gearbox fluid to drain . note use the rear drive unit casting as leverage to loosen the oil pump , and then pull the oil pump away . note allow at least 10 minutes for the gearbox fluid to drain from the rear drive unit , or until a slow drip exits the rear drive unit .
slowly open p2 to speed the drain , and then close p2 .
ensure all charging adapters are present .
move the driver and front passenger seats back to their original position .
at the penthouse , use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance between the charge port busbar lead and the penthouse hv header bolt head . also perform this test on the other lead and bolt head . note the acceptable resistance is between 0.050 mω and 0.195 mω . if the measured resistance is above 0.195 mω , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . note if the resistance is lower than 0.050 mω , reposition the probes and measure again . if after 4 attempts the resistance is consistently lower than 0.050 mω , the test has passed ; continue to the next step .
install the lh liftgate bump stop .
release edge clip from charge port assembly note 1x edge clip
use both hands to firmly connect the dc input connector of the charge port to hv battery harness to the penthouse dc input header . caution make sure that the connector fits the header squarely and tightly .
move the driver and front passenger seats back to their original position .
remove the plugs from both fittings , immediately connect the rear drive unit inlet hose to the inverter coolant coupling , and then fasten the clip .
fully raise the handle on the dc input connector of the charge port to hv battery harness .
remove and discard the nut , and remove the washer that attach the lh halfshaft to the hub assembly .
install only the axle nut onto the halfshaft , and then use a ratchet and socket to manually tighten the nut to pull the halfshaft into the hub until it seats . note do not use power tools to tighten the nut as it might strip the threads .
inspect the condition of the drained fluid , taking note of any particulates metallic or otherwise , or fluid that has significantly darkened .
remove the cabin intake duct . see duct cabin intake .
disconnect the coolant drain adapter , and then connect the coolant pressure test adapter plug to the inverter .
close the hood and the trunk .
remove the masking tape from around the charge port area .
remove bolts securing charge port assembly to body note 3x bolts , 10mm , 6 nm
while pressing the dc input connector onto the dc input header , fully lower the handle . caution make sure that the handle does not bind as it is lowered .
remove the masking tape from the charge port door area .
remove the coolant drain from under the vehicle .
remove the bolt that attaches the brake rotor to the hub . note remove the lug nut previously installed for early production vehicles .
remove the axle nut from the halfshaft , install a new washer onto the halfshaft , and then reinstall the axle nut hand tightened . note the axle nut is torqued in a later step .
if the drained fluid contains particulates or is significantly darkened , use the oil filter socket to remove the oil filter from the rear drive unit . note allow the gearbox fluid to drain .
remove the outer hvac plenum duct . see duct hvac plenum outer .
open p2 again , and allow at least 45 seconds for the pressure to stabilize to 26 psi .
raise all windows .
select the actions tab and search for charge port .
close the charge port busbar access door , and then install the bolt on the access door . 9 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
pull the entire rear side of the harness assembly away from the body
slide the release to lock the dc input connector handle in the secured position .
fasten the clips that attach the rh inner hv battery return hose to the hv battery .
install the hub puller onto the lh rear rotor , and then install and handtighten the puller washers and the lug nuts onto the rotor studs .
install the lh rear wheel , and then install and handtighten the wheel lug nuts .
remove the fill plug from the rear drive unit .
disconnect lv power . see 12v/lv power .
close p1 , record the starting pressure displayed , and start a 4 minute timer .
close all doors .
select testself_cp_x_door_connectivity , click run and allow the routine to complete .
disconnect actuator connector note 1x connector
verfiy that the connector is fully seated , and compare both sides of the connector , that it is properly latched in place . note an improperly seated connector might lead to connector damage and charging problems later on .
in toolbox , type testself_cp in the search tab . note make sure that actions is selected , if not already .
install the rear hv battery skid plate . see skid plate hv battery rear .
use the hub puller to free the halfshaft from the hub splines . note the halfshaft is removed at a later step .
lower the vehicle . see raise vehicle 2 post lift .
inspect the seal on the oil filter , the oring on the fill plug , and orings on the oil pump . make sure that the oring is on the fill plug , the 3 orings are on the oil pump , and no orings are stuck in the rear drive unit assembly . if an oring is damaged on the oil pump , install a new oring . if the oring is damaged on the fill plug , install a new fill plug or oring . if the oil filter was removed , check that the seal is on the oil filter and not on the rear drive unit assembly .
after 4 minutes record the ending pressure displayed .
select testself_cp_x_uhf , and then click run and allow the routine to complete . note to avoid failing the test you only have a short time to transmit a uhf signal to the vehicle once the routine starts . press the button on the charge handle to transmit the signal .
remove charge port latch subassembly from charge port note 3x patch bolts , t20 , 3.0 nm , 2x alignment pins , discard bolts after removal
fully raise the handle on the 3phase connector of the charge port to hv battery harness .
in toolbox , select testself_cp_x_door_connectivity , and then click run .
install the mid aero shield panel . see panel aero shield mid .
remove the lug nuts and the puller washers from the lh rear rotor studs , and then remove the hub puller from the rotor .
fully tighten the lh rear wheel lug nuts in a starpattern . 175 nm
lubricate the oil pump oring with fresh edf2 gearbox fluid , and then reinstall the oil pump onto the rear drive unit assembly . note make sure that the oil pump oring is lubricated before installation onto the rear drive unit .
remove the lh and rh rear wheels . see wheel .
subtract the ending pressure from the starting pressure , and if : the difference greater than 0.2 psi , check the hose , adapter , and plug fittings , close p2 and open p1 , check the regulator pressure , and then retest from step 14 . if the difference is still greater than 0.2 psi , escalate a toolbox session . the difference is 0.2 psi or less , continue the procedure .
install the ac 3 phase connector , and then push the locking tab downward .
install charge port latch subassembly to charge port note 3x patch bolts , t20 , 3.0 nm , 2x alignment pins , install new patch bolts
use both hands to firmly connect the 3phase connector of the charge port to hv battery harness to the penthouse 3phase header . caution make sure that the connector fits the header squarely and tightly .
in toolbox , select testself_ cp_x_uhf , and then click run . note to avoid failing the test you only have a short time to transmit uhf signal to the vehicle once the routine starts . press the button on the charge handle to transmit signal .
fasten the clip that attaches the charge port electrical harness to the vehicle .
install the bolt that attaches the brake rotor to the hub . 5 nm note reinstall the lug nut previously installed for early production vehicles .
remove the lh rear drive unit mount . see mount rear drive unit lh .
remove the rear subframe assembly from the vehicle . see subframe assembly rear .
fully tighten the lh rear drive unit halfshaft nut . 300 nm
install the bolts that attach the oil pump to the rear drive unit . 5 nm + 20 degrees
remove the lh and rh rear suspension covers . see cover rear suspension lh .
disconnect the air supply from the test fixture .
install the ac logic connector , and then install the white locking tab .
connect latch actuator connector note 1x connector
while pressing the 3phase connector onto the 3phase header , fully lower the handle . caution make sure that the handle does not bind as it is lowered .
refill the cooling system . see cooling system .
install the charge port to hv battery harness bracket to the body , and install the bolts that attach the bracket to the body . 10 nm
install a spring compressor onto the lh rear coil spring . line up the hooks per image and verify that the spindle goes through the body opening when the suspension is compressed .
remove the bolt that attaches the straight fluid coupling to the rear drive unit inverter .
place a coolant drain container underneath the rear drive unit .
support the center of the rear drive unit with rubber or wood blocks .
disconnect the electrical harness from the inverter low voltage connector . caution move the low voltage connector away from the coolant manifold to prevent that coolant is spilled onto the connector during inverter removal .
install the lh rear wheel center cap . see cap wheel .
remove the rear drive unit from the subframe assembly . see drive unit rear .
if the oil filter was removed , apply a light coat of edf2 gearbox fluid to the oring seal of a new oil filter , and then install the new filter onto the rear drive unit . 3 nm + 135 degrees
open p1 , and disconnect the test fixture from the coolant pressure test adapter .
install the dc logic connector , and then install the white locking tab .
make sure that the charging system operates as intended . use the customer 's umc , if available .
move charge port assembly into position for installation
slide the release to lock the 3phase connector handle in the secured position .
fasten the clips that attach the low voltage electrical harness to the charge port to hv battery harness bracket at the penthouse .
disconnect the electrical harness from the inverter logic connector .
remove the rear drive unit . see drive unit rear .
position a support stand underneath the lh rear suspension .
remove the underhood storage unit . see underhood storage unit .
remove the lh front drive unit halfshaft . see halfshaft front drive unit lh .
remove the lh wheel center cap . see cap wheel .
release the clip that attaches the rear drive unit inlet hose to the rear drive unit inverter .
remove the straight fluid coupling .
release the clip that attaches the hose to the 55 degree fluid coupling , and then remove the hose .
remove the bolt that attaches the rear drive unit ground terminal to the inverter , and remove the terminal from the inverter .
release the clip that attaches the low voltage electrical harness to the inverter .
release the clips that attach the coolant outlet hose to the rear drive unit .
using the measure and fill kit , fill the container with 2300 ml of edf2 gearbox fluid .
remove the rear diffuser . see diffuser rear fascia .
remove the coolant pressure test adapter and coolant pressure test adapter plug from the inverter , and the plugs from the hoses .
install the upper logic connector , and then engage the locking tab . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push down or pull up on the red locking tab .
install bolts securing charge port assembly to body note 3x bolts , 10mm , 6 nm warning make sure the harness is routed out , and the adhesive pad with zip tie is properly mounted if it is installed .
verify for proper operation of the charge port . use the customer 's umc , if available .
install the 2nd row lh seat back . see seat back 2nd row lh .
install the logic connector dummy plug into the logic connector .
position the rear drive unit above an empty rear drive unit crate . note use a pallet if no crate is available .
install the drive unit bushing tool onto the rear bushing .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh upper aft link to the knuckle .
use an adjustable seal puller tool to remove the lh front drive unit differentialhalfshaft assembly oil seal . caution take care not to scratch the inner bore of the front drive unit with the adjustable seal puller tool .
drain the front drive unit gearbox fluid . see gearbox fluid front drive unit .
loosen the lh wheel lug nuts . caution use only hand tools to remove or install the fasteners . do not use impact or power tools . caution use a 6 point socket . do not use a 12 point socket or a specialty socket .
disconnect the low voltage electrical harness from the inverter connector .
lubricate the straight fluid coupling oring with coolant . caution do not install the fluid coupling with the oring dry .
insert a plug in the hose .
release the clip that attaches the coolant outlet hose to the lh mount .
release the clip , disconnect the rear drive unit inlet hose from the inverter coolant inlet , and then plug the inlet .
release the spring clip that attach the coolant outlet hose from the cooler , and then remove the hose from the rear drive unit .
cut both the input and output hoses of the fluid transfer pump to approximately 26 '' .
disconnect the electrical harness from the rear subframe harness rh connector .
connect the hoses to the inverter . caution perform a pushpull test to verify that the hose is fully seated .
close the hood and all doors and windows .
in toolbox , type cp connectivity in the search tab .
install edge clip on charge port cable assembly note 1x edge clip
install the bolts that attach the charge port harness bracket to the vehicle at the penthouse . 10 nm
install the bushing removal tool on the rh bushing . note use cups `` a '' , `` c '' , and `` d '' when assembling the special tool , as shown .
turn the nut on the thrust washer to remove the bushing from the drive unit .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh upper fore link to the knuckle .
support the lh side of the front drive unit with an underhoist stand , as shown . caution place a show towel between the underhoist stand and front drive unit .
loosen the lh front drive unit halfshaft nut .
install the straight fluid coupling to the rear drive unit inverter , and then install a new bolt to attach the coupling to the inverter . 6 nm
remove the fastener that attaches the 55 degree fluid coupling to the rear drive unit . 6 nm
release the clip that attaches the coolant outlet hose to the inverter fitting , and remove the hose from the inverter .
release the clip that attaches the rear drive unit inlet hose to the hv harness bracket , and then remove the hose from the rear drive unit .
release the clip that attaches the invertertocooler hose to the cooler , and then remove the hoses from the cooler .
insert the output hose of the fluid transfer pump into the fill hole of the rear drive unit until fully seated , and then pull the output hose back 5mm .
release the clip that attaches the rear subframe harness to the body on the rh side .
in toolbox , select testself_ cp_x_door_connectivity , and then click run .
insert manual release cable back into the locking tab note push down on the release cable to secure it into the locking tab
install the clips that attach the electrical harness to the charge port harness bracket at the penthouse .
close the hood and all doors .
install the lh 2nd row seat side bolster . see bolster side seat 2nd row lh .
turn the bearingside bushing removal tool nut with a wrench while holding the other nut in place .
separate the bushing tool , and then remove it from the drive unit .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh toe link to the knuckle .
position a coolant drain under the front drive unit heat exchanger .
remove the bolt that attaches the front drive unit to the front subframe . 80 nm
remove the bolt that attaches the hv electrical harness to the inverter .
install the lh rear drive unit mount . see mount rear drive unit lh .
remove the 55 degree fluid coupling from the rear drive unit .
remove and discard the nut and bolt that attach the lh mount to the subframe . warning if necessary , ask an assistant to help when operating lift equipment .
remove the bolt that attaches the hv harness bracket to the inverter .
release the clips that attach the invertertocooler hose to the rear drive unit .
set up the fill process by putting the container with the measured fluid in the drain basket , and then fully submerge the input hose of the fluid transfer pump and prime the pump .
disconnect the electrical harness from the rear subframe harness lh connector .
install charge port closeout panel note 7x clips
install the clips that attach the lv electrical harness along the cpillar area .
install the foam cover to the lh side of the penthouse .
when the bushing has been pushed out of the drive unit , separate the bushing removal tool , and then remove it from the drive unit .
set up the bushing tool to press in the new bushing .
remove and discard the nut that attaches the rear stabilizer bar link to the rear stabilizer bar . note break the nut loose , and then counterhold the ball joint with a 5 mm hex wrench .
release the clip , disconnect the heat exchanger superbottle coolant hose from the heat exchanger , and then immediately plug the male and female fittings .
carefully lower the front underhoist stand until the front drive unit oil pump is accessible .
remove the lh front wheel . see wheel .
perform an inverter coolant leak test . see inverter coolant leak test .
insert a plug in the rear drive unit 55 degree fluid coupling opening .
remove the bolts that attach the lh mount to the rear drive unit , and remove the mount from the rear drive unit .
release the clip that attach the invertertocooler hose to the inverter , and then remove the hose .
connect the 12v power supply to the oil pump using the oil pump switchbox special tool and the xp10 jump pack .
release the clip that attaches the rear subframe harness to the body on the lh side .
install lv harness edge clip to charge port closeout panel note 1x clip
install the charge port harness on the vehicle near the charge port assembly , and then install the clips that attach the lv electrical harness onto the charge port harness . note lift the charge port harness reference point up and over the body . the reference point should be reset into the body .
install the leak test adapter into the rear drive unit hv header .
set up the bushing tool to press in the new bushing . note use cups `` d '' and `` e '' when assembling the special tool , as shown .
turn the nut on the thrust washer to press the new bushing into the drive unit .
remove the bolts that attach the lh rear damper at the top mount . 41 nm
release the clip that attaches the heat exchanger superbottle coolant hose to the superbottle , and move the coolant hose aside .
remove the bolts that attach the front drive unit oil pump to the front drive unit . 5 nm + 20 degrees
remove and discard the lh front drive unit halfshaft nut and washers . note the washers are attached to the nut .
refill the coolant . see powertrain coolant .
lubricate the 55 degree fluid coupling oring with coolant . caution do not install the fluid coupling with the oring dry .
install the lh rear drive unit mount to the rear drive unit , and then handtighten the bolts that attach the mount to the rear drive unit .
perform the diode test on the removed drive unit . disconnect the battery to drive unit hv cable from the drive unit side . use a multimeter in diode mode with the positive dmm probe to b of the inverter and negative probe to b+ . record the reading .
with an assistant , pump edf2 gearbox fluid into the rear drive unit assembly as follows : note the minimum refill capacity of the rear drive unit assembly is 2.1 liters . using excess gearbox fluid in the fill container allows the oil pump to dispense the full 2.1l without drawing air . make sure that there is less than 200ml left when completed . pumping the full 2.3 liters is not required . pump 5 full strokes from the fluid container with the manual pump . run the oil pump via the switch box for the entire fill , and then keep running the oil pump until the fill plug is installed . caution do not run the oil pump dry . caution if the oil pump is not running and the fill plug is not installed , the edf2 gearbox fluid will drain from the fill plug within 10 seconds .
remove the nut that attaches the rear drive unit ground strap to the body in the lh rear wheel arch , and then remove the ground strap from the body .
perform a vacuum refill the cooling system . see cooling system .
connect lv charge port harness connector to charge port ecu note 1x connector
install the bolt that attaches the charge port harness ground to the body . 6 nm
connect the pack enclosure leak tester to the leak test adapter on the rear drive unit hv header .
lower the support stand to gain access for halfshaft removal .
release the clip , disconnect the heat exchanger fdu inverter coolant hose to the heat exchanger , and then immediately plug the male and female fittings .
remove the front drive unit oil pump . tip : use the front drive unit as a fulcrum to leverage out the oil pump .
remove and discard the bolt that attaches the lh front abs wheel speed sensor to the lh front knuckle .
tighten the bolts in a twostep , counterclockwise pattern , starting with the upperright bolt . 35 nm +55 deg
install the invertertocooler hose to the inverter , and then attach the hose with a spring clip . caution perform a pushpull test to verify that the hose is fully seated .
install the fill plug into the rear drive unit . 15 nm
remove and discard the nut that attaches the lh rear stabilizer bar end link to the rear stabilizer bar . note use a 5mm allen wrench to prevent the ball joint stud from turning and damaging the ball joint .
connect lh rear bodyside tail lamp assembly note 1x connector
install the charge port door grommet on the body
close both valves on the pack enclosure leak tester , and then connect a compressed air supply line .
install the rear drive unit . see drive unit rear .
separate the halfshaft from the hub assembly , and then move the halfshaft aside .
remove the bolts that attach the heat exchanger to the inverter . note place a shop towel underneath the heat exchanger to catch any escaping fluids .
release the clip that attach es the lh front abs wheel speed sensor to the lh front knuckle , and then set the sensor aside .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the hv header to the inverter .
install a new nut and bolt to attach the lh mount to the subframe . 80 nm
release the clip that attaches the lh rear abs wheel speed sensor connector to the subframe , and then disconnect the subframe harness from the connector . tip : use a mechanical pickup tool to hold the connector in place , and then release the connector clip with a screwdriver .
install the clips that attach the invertertocoolant hose to the rear drive unit .
remove the oil drain container from underneath the drive unit .
remove lh rear stabilizer bar end link from the rear stabilizer bar . note move the stabilizer bar up and down to ease removal of the end link .
install lh trunk side trim
install the bolts that attach the charge port assembly to the charge port door assembly . 6 nm warning make sure the harness is routed out , and the adhesive pad with zip tie is properly mounted if it is installed .
fully close the regulator , and then open the inlet valve .
position the axle remover cable around the inner joint of the lh rear drive unit halfshaft , and then use a cable tie to hold the axle remover cable in position . figure 1 . axle removed from drive unit for demonstration purposes
remove the heat exchanger from the front drive unit assembly . caution do not pry against the front drive unit or heat exchanger with tools . gently wiggle the heat exchanger to free it from the front drive unit .
install the oil pump into the front drive unit .
remove the bolt that attaches the lh front brake hose bracket to the lh front knuckle .
insert the extractor tool into the hv header , push the tool handle in , and pull on the header to remove it from the inverter .
connect the coolant outlet hose to the inverter fitting , and then fasten the clip that attaches the hose to the fitting . caution perform a pushpull test to verify that the hose is fully seated .
release the clip and remove the grommet that attach the rear lh abs wheel speed sensor cable to the rear knuckle and bracket .
install the invertertocooler hose to the cooler , and then attach the hose with spring clip . caution perform a pushpull test to verify that the hose is fully seated .
disconnect the oil pump switchbox and xp10 jump pack from the oil pump .
remove and discard the nut that attaches the rh rear stabilizer bar end link to the rear stabilizer bar . note use a 5mm allen wrench to prevent the ball joint stud from turning and damaging the ball joint .
charge the vehicle to verify the repair , using the customer 's charging equipment , if available .
connect lh trunk side trim puddle lamp connector note 1x connector
verify proper operation of the charge port and that the vehicle charges .
set the regulator to 1 psi .
hook the axle remover slide hammer on the 2 axle remover cable loops , and then use the slide hammer to remove the halfshaft from the drive unit .
install new orings onto the heat exchanger .
install the bolts that attach the oil pump to the front drive unit . 5 nm + 20 degrees
remove and discard the nyloc nut that attaches the lh tie rod end to the lh front knuckle , and then remove the tie rod end from the knuckle .
release the clips that attach the retainer to the inverter , and then remove and discard the retainer from the inverter .
fasten the clip that attaches the coolant outlet hose to the lh mount .
install the coolant outlet hose to the cooler , and then attach the hose with spring clip . caution perform a pushpull test to verify that the hose is fully seated .
connect the oil pump electrical connector , and then engage the locking tab . important : perform a pushpull test to verify that the connector is fully attached .
remove rh rear stabilizer bar end link from the rear stabilizer bar . note move the stabilizer bar up and down to ease removal of the end link .
install clips for lh trunk side trim note 6x push clips , the number of clips on newer vehicles may vary
install the clips that attach the charge port closeout panel .
remove the lh front wheel center cap . see cap wheel .
open the outlet valve , and allow at least 45 seconds for the pressure to stabilize to 1 psi .
replace the front drive unit oil filter according to the gearbox fluid procedure . see gearbox fluid front drive unit .
remove the front body controller.see module body controller front .
install a halfshaft plug into the opening of the gearbox .
lightly coat the orings with edf2 gearbox fluid .
carefully raise the front underhoist stand until the front drive unit front bushing aligns with the front subframe mount .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh front upper control arm to the lh front knuckle .
install a new retainer into the header , and then fasten the clips that attach the retainer to the header .
install the rear drive unit ground terminal to the inverter . 10 nm
remove and discard the nut , and then remove the washer that attach the lh halfshaft to the hub assembly .
attach the clips that hold the coolant outlet hose to the rear drive unit .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the rear stabilizer bar to the rear subframe , and then remove the stabilizer bar from the subframe .
install trunk garnish onto body note 6x clips , number of clips may vary on newer vehicles , verify trunk seal is fully seated along garnish
install the edge clip that attaches the lv electrical harness to the charge port closeout panel .
loosen the lh front wheel lug nuts . caution use only hand tools to remove or install the fasteners . do not use impact or power tools . caution use a 6 point socket . do not use a 12 point socket or a specialty socket .
close the inlet valve , record the starting pressure displayed , and then start a 60second timer .
remove the front drive unit breather .
apply approximately 1 gram of molykote m77 lubricant paste only to the hub mating face on the outboard side of the lh rear drive unit halfshaft . caution do not apply any lubricant to the halfshaft splines . if lubricant is mistakenly applied , wipe the splines clean with a shop towel .
install the heat exchanger onto the front drive unit and press it firmly into place .
install the bolt that attaches the front drive unit to the front subframe . 80 nm
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh strut to the lh front lower lateral link .
install the hv header onto the inverter . note push , pull , and push on the header to make sure it is fully seated .
remove the rubber or wood blocks that support the center of the rear drive unit .
remove the bolt that attaches the lh rear brake rotor to the hub . note remove the lug nut previously installed for early production vehicles .
install the rear drive unit . see drive unit rear . note new rear drive units come prefilled with gearbox fluid . clean up any leaks during installation and top off the gearbox fluid as necessary . for more information , search for 144627600b in the service tooling catalog .
in toolbox , click the play button next to `` testself_dir_x_oilpumppressure '' and select run . note this test might take up to 5 times to successfully run . if this test keeps failing , add additional fluid , if needed .
release the clips that attach the coolant hoses to lh shear plate .
install clips securing trunk garnish to body note 2x push clips
connect the lv charge port ecu electrical connectors .
remove the front subframe assembly . see # guid83551d07380045d2a4e0b9da7d32a35f .
after 60 seconds record the ending pressure displayed .
remove the front aero shield panel from the vehicle . see panel aero shield front .
remove the front subframe assembly from the vehicle . see # guid83551d07380045d2a4e0b9da7d32a35f .
remove the wheel . see wheel .
install the new front drive unit breather . 5 nm
remove the halfshaft plug from the gearbox , and then install the halfshaft into the rear drive unit . caution when installing the halfshaft to the drive unit : take care not to damage or displace the oil seals . make sure that the opening of the snap rings are facing towards the bottom of the drive unit . carefully push the halfshaft into the drive unit until there is an audible `` click '' from the halfshaft stub contacting the pinion shaft . there will be a slight pulling sensation on the halfshaft as the halfshaft circlip locks into place . pull on the inner halfshaft cup to confirm that the circlip is locked into place . if the halfshaft detaches from the drive unit then reinstall the halfshaft and then test that it is fully seated . set the lh halfshaft temporarily on the lower aft link .
install the bolts that attach the heat exchanger to the inverter . 5 nm + 30 degrees
remove the underhoist stand and shop towel from the lh side of the front drive unit .
position the hydraulic hub puller tool on the lh front wheel studs , and then handtighten the wheel lug nuts .
install the new bolts that attach the hv header to the inverter . 6 nm
install the rear subframe assembly into the vehicle . see subframe assembly rear .
release the clips that secure coolant hoses to the rear skid plate . note clip quantity varies with older vehicles .
install trunk sill trim assembly note 4x clips , align the latch with center slot then 2 locator to their slot and then press to secure the clips , adjust the seal to overlap the trim
connect the electrical harness to the taillight connector .
release the clips that attach the front subframe electrical harness to the front drive unit inverter .
subtract the ending pressure from the starting pressure , and if : the difference is greater than 0.04 psi , check the hose , adapter , and plug fittings , close the outlet valve and open the inlet valve , check the regulator pressure , and then retest from step 13 . if the difference is still greater than 0.04 psi , escalate a toolbox session . the difference is 0.04 psi or less , continue the procedure .
position the front drive unit stand and transmission jack under the front drive unit .
install the bushing tool on the rh front drive unit bushing . note use cups `` k '' , `` b '' , and `` i '' when assembling the special tool , as shown . figure 1 . other assemblies hidden for clarity
place the wheel on the tire changer , with the outside of the wheel facing up .
install the front body controller . see module body controller front .
swing out the upper section of the knuckle and mate the halfshaft to the hub .
remove the plugs from the male and female fittings , immediately connect the heat exchanger fdu inverter coolant hose to the heat exchanger , and then fasten the clip that attaches the hose to the heat exchanger . note perform a pushpullpush check of the hose connection .
refill the front drive unit gearbox fluid . see gearbox fluid front drive unit .
remove the lh front drive unit halfshaft from the lh front hub assembly , and then set the halfshaft aside . note while holding the hub in position , turn the hydraulic hub puller tool handle clockwise to separate the lh front drive unit halfshaft from the hub assembly .
perform an inverter air leak test . see inverter air leak test .
use the hub puller to free the lh rear halfshaft from the hub splines . note the lh rear halfshaft is removed in a later step .
install the cabin intake duct . see duct cabin intake .
release the clips that attach the coolant hoses to rh shear plate .
install load floor
remove the lug nuts from the lh front wheel , and then remove the wheel from the vehicle .
remove the bolts that attach the lh front drive unit mount to the front drive unit , and then remove the mount from the front drive unit .
in toolbox 3 , click the dashboards tab , and and type ‘ front drive unit replacement ' into the search field .
disconnect the air supply from the pack enclosure leak tester .
remove the bolt that attaches the lh motor mount to the lh motor mount bracket . 105 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench external torx e18 adapter
turn the bearingside bushing tool nut with a wrench while holding the opposite nut in place . caution apply torque only to the bearingside bushing tool nut . figure 2 . apply torque only to the nut highlighted red
insert the center clamp .
remove the plugs from the male and female fittings , immediately connect the heat exchanger superbottle coolant hose to the heat exchanger , and then fasten the clip that attaches the hose to the heat exchanger . note perform a pushpullpush check of the hose connection .
remove the hydraulic hub puller tool from the lh front wheel studs .
remove the hv battery rear skid plate . see skid plate hv battery rear .
close trunk
install the lh front drive unit mount to the front drive unit , and then install the bolts that attach the mount to the front drive unit . 35 nm + 55 degrees
open the inlet valve , and then disconnect the pack enclosure leak tester from the leak test adapter on the rear drive unit hv header .
remove the bolt that attaches the rh motor mount to the rh motor mount bracket . 105 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench external torx e18 6 in extension adapter
when the bushing has been pushed out of the front drive unit , separate the bushing tool , and then remove the bushing .
tighten the cone on the center clamp .
in toolbox 3 , click the dashboards tab , and and type ‘ front drive inverter replacement ' into the search field .
fasten the clip that attaches the heat exchanger superbottle coolant hose to the superbottle .
position the axle remover cable around the inner joint of the lh front drive unit halfshaft , and then use a cable tie to hold the axle remover cable in position . figure 1 . axle removed from drive unit for demonstration purposes
install the bolt that attaches the lh brake rotor to the hub . 5 nm note reinstall the lug nut previously installed for early production vehicles .
position a coolant drain collector underneath the lh rear of the hv battery .
align the trunk carpet over isofix bars on lh side note 2x bars
install the hydraulic hub puller tool onto the lh front wheel studs , and then install and handtighten the wheel lug nuts .
fasten the clips that attach the front drive unit harness to the front drive unit inverter .
disconnect the laptop with toolbox 3 from the vehicle . note do not close this instance of toolbox 3 as it is needed later on in the procedure .
remove the leak test adapter from the rear drive unit hv header .
remove the front drive unit mount bolt . 80 nm tip : raise or lower the pole jack as needed to help release the bolt . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : ratchet/torque wrench 18mm socket
set up the bushing tool to press in the new bushing . note use cups `` l '' , `` j '' , and `` c '' when assembling the special tool , as shown . note make sure the rubber tab is visible at the top of cup `` j '' . figure 3 . cups `` l '' , `` j '' , and `` c '' used to install the bushing figure 4 . rubber tab visible at the top of cup `` j ''
remove the valve core , and allow the tire to deflate .
use shop towels to wipe up any spilled coolant or gearbox fluid .
restore the driver and front passenger seat back to their original position .
install the lh side trunk carpet clips onto body studs under 2nd row seat cushion note 2x clips , newer vehicles may not be equipped with clips or the number of clips may vary
hold the hub in position , and turn the hydraulic hub puller tool handle clockwise to push the lh front drive unit halfshaft in from the lh front hub assembly for a distance of 50 mm . caution if the halfshaft stops moving in respect to the hub , stop , and turn the tool handle counterclockwise for two turns .
install the front subframe assembly . see # guid83551d07380045d2a4e0b9da7d32a35f .
fully raise the vehicle .
use a steering wheel lock to firmly set the steering wheel in the straight forward position .
lower the front drive unit and turn the pole jack knob to tilt the motor by ~35 degrees to separate the front drive unit from the subframe . caution take care not to damage the coolant lines and harnesses .
turn the bearingside bushing tool nut with a wrench until the bushing flange makes contact with the front drive unit . caution apply torque only to the bearingside bushing tool nut . note while installing the bushing , make sure the rubber tab remains visible at the top of cup `` j '' . figure 5 . apply torque only to the nut highlighted red
position the upper bead roller at the edge of the rim .
release the gray locking tab , and then press down on the tab to disconnect the oil pump connector .
use the support stand to raise the lh rear suspension .
install a halfshaft plug into the gearbox opening . note move the lh front knuckle assembly aside to provide enough clearance to safely remove the lh front drive unit halfshaft .
remove the vehicle from the lift .
install 60 seat back to vehicle note align center and outer pivot locations
apply approximately 1 gram of molykote m77 lubricant paste only to the hub mating face on the outboard side of the lh front drive unit halfshaft . tip : a bent acid brush can be of assistance . caution do not apply any lubricant to the halfshaft splines . if lubricant is mistakenly applied , wipe the splines clean with a shop towel .
install the bushing tool on the front drive unit gearbox bushing . note use cups `` k '' , `` a '' , `` h '' , and `` l '' when assembling the special tool , as shown .
rotate the tire to loosen the upper bead . lubricate the bead as the tire rotates .
position an oil drain container underneath the front drive unit oil filter and oil pump .
check the front drive unit gearbox fluid level , and fill as necessary . see gearbox fluid front drive unit .
apply approximately 1 gram of molten m77 lubricant paste only to the hub mating face on the outboard side of the lh front drive unit halfshaft . caution do not apply any lubricant to the halfshaft splines . if lubricant is mistakenly applied , wipe the splines clean with a shop towel .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear toe link to the knuckle .
install nuts securing 60 seat back hinge bracket to body note 2x nuts , 13mm , 18 nm
install the lh 2nd row seat back . see seat back 2nd row lh .
remove the bolt that attaches the front drive unit hv harness to the front drive unit . 10 nm
remove the bolts that attach the front drive unit oil pump to the front drive unit .
remove the halfshaft plug from the gearbox , and then with assistance , install the lh front drive unit halfshaft into the front drive unit . note move the lh front knuckle assembly aside to provide enough clearance to safely install the lh front drive unit halfshaft . caution take care not to damage or displace the oil seal . caution make sure that the opening of the snap ring is facing towards the bottom of the drive unit .
remove the lh rear halfshaft from the knuckle and hub assembly .
connect 60 seat back seat heater harness note 1x connector
install the lh 2nd row buckle . see buckle 2nd row lh .
slide the red release tab to unlock the front drive unit hv harness connector .
partially remove the oil pump from the front drive unit assembly using a flat head screwdriver at two different locations , and then allow the gearbox fluid to drain . note the oil pump can not be removed from the front drive unit because it will be obstructed by the front subframe . note allow at least 10 minutes for the gearbox fluid to drain from the front drive unit , or until a slow drip exits the front drive unit .
verfiy that the rear drive unit hv connector is fully seated , and compare both sides of the connector that it is properly secured in place . note an improperly seated connector might lead to connector damage and rear drive unit problems later on .
align the splines of the lh front halfshaft with those of the lh front hub , and then install the halfshaft into the hub .
install the bolt that attaches the hv electrical harness to the inverter . 6 nm
review the tpms service tool profile .
if the drained fluid contains particulates or is significantly darkened , use the oil filter socket to remove the oil filter from the front drive unit . note allow the gearbox fluid to drain .
fasten the clip that attaches the low voltage electrical harness to the inverter .
use the tpms service tool to read and record the wheel sensors in the order displayed on the tool 's screen .
remove the fill plug from the front drive unit .
connect the low voltage electrical harness to the inverter connector .
in toolbox 3 , run the `` proc_tpms_x_tpmssensorlearn '' action , and then update the tpms sensor ids with the values from the tpms service tool .
remove the lh side rail trim . see trim side rail lh ..
install the lh front wheel , and then install and handtighten the wheel lug nuts .
remove the logic connector dummy plug from the logic connector .
inspect the seal on the oil filter , the oring on the fill plug , and orings on the oil pump . make sure that the oring is on the fill plug , the 3 orings are on the oil pump , and no orings are stuck in the front drive unit assembly . if an oring is damaged on the oil pump , install a new oring . if the oring is damaged on the fill plug , install a new fill plug or oring . if the oil filter was removed , check that the seal is on the oil filter and not on the front drive unit assembly .
fasten the clip that attaches the rear drive unit inlet hose to the rear drive unit inverter .
test drive the vehicle to at least 15 mph for a short distance to reset the tpms alert .
remove the lh upper cpillar trim . see trim cpillar upper lh .
connect the electrical harness to the inverter logic connector .
lubricate the oil pump orings with fresh edf2 gearbox fluid , and then reinstall the oil pump onto the front drive unit assembly . note make sure that the oil pump orings are lubricated before installation onto the front drive unit .
remove the rh 2nd row seat side bolster . see bolster side seat 2nd row lh .
fully tighten the lh front wheel lug nuts in a starpattern . 175 nm
remove the rh side rail trim . see trim side rail lh ..
fully tighten the lh front drive unit halfshaft nut . 300 nm
if the oil filter was removed , apply a light coat of edf2 gearbox fluid to the oring seal of a new oil filter , and then install the new filter onto the front drive unit . 3 nm + 135 degrees
remove the rh upper cpillar trim . see trim cpillar upper lh .
install the lh front wheel center cap . see cap wheel .
using the measure and fill kit , fill the container with 1500 ml of edf2 gearbox fluid .
release the clip , disconnect the rear drive unit inverter inlet hose from the hv battery , and then immediately plug both fittings .
release the clip , disconnect the rear drive unit inverter inlet hose from the rear drive unit inverter , and then immediately plug both fittings .
with an assistant , install and handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh toe link to the knuckle .
release the clip that attaches the rear drive unit inverter inlet tube from rear drive unit hv harness .
turn the bearingside bushing tool nut with a wrench while holding the opposite nut in place .
make sure the bushing alignment lug is oriented to 12 o'clock . figure 6 . other assemblies hidden for clarity
position the upper bead roller approximately 100 mm from the valve stem , and then compress the bead to expose the tpms sensor .
with an assistant , install and handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh upper fore link to the knuckle .
remove the rear drive unit inverter inlet tube down and out from between the rear subframe and the hv battery .
when the bushing has been pushed out of the front drive unit gearbox , separate the bushing tool , and then remove the bushing .
install the front subframe assembly on the vehicle . see # guid83551d07380045d2a4e0b9da7d32a35f .
remove the nut that attaches the tpms sensor to the wheel , and then remove the tpms sensor .
with an assistant , install and handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh upper aft link to the knuckle .
verify that the halfshaft is fully seated : carefully push the halfshaft into the drive unit until there is an audible `` click '' from the halfshaft stub contacting the pinion shaft . there will be a slight pulling sensation on the halfshaft as the halfshaft circlip locks into place . pull on the inner halfshaft cup to confirm that the circlip is locked into place . if the halfshaft detaches from the drive unit then reinstall the halfshaft and then test that it is fully seated .
remove the coolant drain collector from under the vehicle .
install the lh rear seat belt buckle into vehicle note 1x patch bolt , 15mm , 40 nm , position center seat belt under buckle , make sure the guide pin is aligned , install new patch bolt
slowly unlatch the release handle on the front drive unit hv harness connector , and then disconnect the connector from the front drive unit . caution do not apply excessive force to the handle ; doing so could damage the connector alignment tabs .
remove the bolt that attaches the intermediate shaft to the steering gear , and then slide the intermediate shaft upwards to remove it from the steering gear . figure 1 . heat pump model 3 figure 2 . model 3
set up the bushing tool to press in the new bushing . note use cups `` l '' , `` h '' , and `` d '' when assembling the special tool , as shown .
use an ipa wipe to thoroughly clean the inside and outside of the tpms sensor mounting hole .
install a new nut to attach the rear stabilizer bar link to the rear stabilizer bar , and then mark the nut with a paint pen . 55 nm note counterhold the ball joint with a 5 mm hex wrench .
check the coolant level , and fill as necessary . see cooling system .
hook the axle remover slide hammer on the 2 axle remover cable loops , and then use the slide hammer to release the halfshaft from the drive unit .
release the locking tab , push the handle downward , and then disconnect the rear subframe electrical harness from the rear drive unit inverter logic connector . caution once disconnected , make sure that coolant does not get into the connectors .
fold the 60 seat in down position note protect the seat cushion if necessary
connect a laptop with toolbox 3 to the vehicle . note the vehicle connection is integrated into the drivers footwell cover . open the toolbox 3 website https : //toolbox.teslamotors.com .
remove all 4 wheels . see wheel .
remove the bolt that attaches the front drive unit ground strap to the front drive unit . 6 nm
remove the wheel . see wheel .
refer to the tire and loading information label located on the driver side bpillar , and record the correct tire pressure , depending on suspension type , tire size , and region .
disconnect the electrical harness from the front subframe electrical harness .
position the wheel on the balancer with the front of the wheel facing outward . if needed , install the proper inner cone adapter on the wheel balancer .
turn the bearingside bushing tool nut with a wrench until the bushing is fully installed .
install the tpms sensor so that it fits closely to the wheel .
install the bolts that attach the lh rear damper at the top mount . 41 nm
install the underhood storage unit . see underhood storage unit .
with assistance , remove the lh rear drive unit halfshaft from the rear drive unit , and then install a halfshaft plug into the opening of the gearbox .
release the clip that attaches the rear subframe electrical harness to the rear drive unit inverter .
fold the 60 seat into vertical position note remove seat cushion protection
in toolbox , select the connection status icon at the top right corner , and then select `` connect locally '' . note the icon will turn green when the vehicle is connected .
check if the tires are offset or directional . note directional tires are identified with an arrow indicating the direction of rotation on the sidewall .
release the clip that attaches the front drive unit ground strap to the front drive unit .
inspect the outside of the tire . if any of these conditions exist , stop the procedure and replace the tire . see tire front lh . do not repair the tire . the puncture is in the shoulder or sidewall . the object entered the tire at more than a 15 degree angle from perpendicular . the object is more than 1/4 '' in diameter . the tread depth is less than 1/16 '' . there are cracks deeper than 1/16 '' on the sidewall . the tire is more than 10 years old .
install the proper inner cone adapter on the wheel balancer .
slide the red tab to unlock , press the connector release , and then disconnect the electrical harness from the steering gear power connectors .
press and hold the balancer brake pedal to prevent the wheel from spinning .
install the nut that secures the tpms sensor to the wheel . 8 nm
raise the support stand to simulate vehicle at ride height . note make sure that the support stand do not block access to adjust the spring compressor or suspension bolts . note use the rear ride height torque gauge to verify that the rear suspension is set to ride height specifications and adjust the support stand or spring compressor tool , if necessary .
repeat step 10 through step 25 on the rh side of the rear drive unit .
remove the bolt that attaches the rear drive unit hv harness bracket to the rear drive unit inverter .
install the lh rear door sill trim panel note 3x clips , 1x guide tab , align the guiding tab to slot , then push downward to install the clips after aligning them , make sure the seal sits overlapping the trim . newer vehicles may not be equipped with metal bracket and a foam insert will be present the bottom of trim piece
select the `` dashboards '' tab , and then select `` infotainment dashboard '' from the left .
remove the wheel . see wheel .
remove the wheel cap , if equipped . see cap wheel .
remove the wheel cap according to the type of wheel . 18 inch pinwheel wheel : see step 2 19 inch stiletto or 20 inch sport wheel : see step 3
reinstall the wheels according to the type of tires . figure 1 . nondirectional tires , all tires same size move front tires to opposite side in rear . move rear tires only to front . note mobile service technicians , factory tires may be rotated as indicated in `` nondirectional tires , front and rear different size '' . figure 2 . nondirectional tires , front and rear different size move lh to rh . do not move front to rear . figure 3 . directional tires move front tires to rear . do not move from lh to rh .
remove the bolt that attaches the front drive unit ground strap to the hv battery , and then remove the ground strap from the vehicle . 10 nm
dismount the tire from the wheel . see tire front lh . note mark the tire and wheel mounting locations , to simplify balancing later .
place the wheel on the balancer with the face of the wheel to the right .
model 3 pull the grey tab to unlock , then pull the grey tab again to disconnect the electrical harness from the lv logic connectors at the steering gear .
secure the wheel to the balancer by tightening the balancer wing nut .
install the front drive unit to the vehicle .
release the upper bead roller , and allow the bead to seat against the wheel .
measure the distance between the bottom of the quarter panel to the center of the rear axle to make sure that the rear suspension is set to ride height : the distance should measure 378 mm .
handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh strut to the lh front lower lateral link .
disconnect the electrical harness from the resolver connector .
slide the red locking tab , raise the black handle , disconnect the rear drive unit hv harness from the rear drive unit inverter hv header , and then set the hv harness aside .
move the driver seat and front passenger seat back to their original position .
place the wheel on the tire changer , with the front of the wheel facing up .
install the wheel . see wheel .
use a valve core tool to remove the valve core , and allow the tire to deflate . warning the tire will rapidly deflate . wear proper ppe , such as safety glasses and gloves .
loosen the lug nuts . caution use only hand tools to remove or install the fasteners . do not use impact or power tools . caution use a 6 point socket . do not use a 12 point socket or a specialty socket .
gently pull the wheel cap with both hands to release the clips that attach the wheel cap to the wheel .
install all 4 wheels . see wheel .
inspect the inside of the tire . if any of these conditions exist , stop the procedure and mount a new tire onto the wheel . see tire front lh . do not repair the tire . there is evidence that the tire was driven flat . this is identified by inner sidewall cracking , separation , or a blueish color . a previous repair is close enough to the puncture that repair areas will overlap . improper previous repair . broken , kinked , or damaged beads . any visible internal damage .
position the outer flange plate on the wheel .
remove the front lh and rh wheels . see wheel .
refer to the `` tire and loading information '' label located on the driver side bpillar , and record the correct tire pressure , depending on suspension type , tire size , and region .
install the front drive unit mount bolt . 80 nm tip : raise or lower the pole jack as needed to help install the bolt . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : ratchet/torque wrench flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench 18mm socket
inflate the tire to seat the bead .
tighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh toe link to the knuckle , and then mark the bolt and nut with a paint pen . 76 nm
install the bolt and nut that attach the lh front upper control arm to the lh front knuckle . 56 nm
disconnect the electrical harness from the oil pump connector .
remove the nut that attach the rear drive unit hv harness bracket to the hv battery .
install new bolster plastic bracket to lh side bolster note 2x clips , install new bolster bracket
scroll down to `` tpmstype '' , and then select `` tesla ble '' from the drop down menu .
place the wheel on the tire machine , with the front of the wheel facing up .
insert the wheel trim removal tool in the hole on the center cap , and then pull to remove the center cap . figure 1 . wheel trim removal tool figure 2 . wheel trim removal tool inserted
repair the tire . see repair .
press and hold the brake pedal to keep the wheel from spinning .
use a plastic scraper tool to remove all existing wheel weights . discard the wheel weights . note thoroughly remove all adhesive residue .
install the bolt that attaches the rh motor mount to the rh motor mount bracket . 105 nm tip : raise or lower the pole jack as needed to help install the bolt . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench external torx e18 3 in extension adapter
install the valve stem core , and then remove the wheel from the tire changer .
tighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh upper fore link to the knuckle . 76 nm
install the new nyloc nut that attaches the lh tie rod end to the lh front knuckle . 180 nm
attach the drive unit sling tool to the rear drive unit .
slide the red locking tab , raise the black handle , and then disconnect the rear drive unit hv harness from the hv battery header .
install lh side bolster note 1x clip , 1x tab , align the bottom tab then push inward to install
verify for proper operation of the charge port . use the customer 's mobile connector , if available .
position the center clamp in the wheel .
remove the lug nuts from the wheel , and then remove the wheel from the vehicle .
position the wheel cap over the wheel with the bottom of the tesla `` t '' pointing to the valve stem . figure 3 . 18 inch pinwheel `` aero '' wheel cap figure 4 . 19 inch or 20 inch wheel cap
in toolbox , click the actions tab , and then search for `` reset tire estimates '' .
mark the location of the puncture on both the outside and inside of the tire .
tighten the wingnut .
remove the front fascia . see fascia front .
input the vehicle and wheel information into the balancer .
install the bolt that attaches the lh motor mount to the lh motor mount bracket . 105 nm tip : raise or lower the pole jack as needed to help install the bolt . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench external torx e18 3 in extension adapter
rebalance the wheel . see tire front lh .
tighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh upper aft link to the knuckle , and then mark the bolt and nut with a paint pen . 134 nm
install the bolt that attaches the lh front brake hose bracket to the lh front knuckle . 5 nm
position the drive unit stand underneath the gantry .
remove the rear drive unit hv harness down and out from between the rear subframe and the hv battery . note rotate the harness as it is removed to allow access for the bracket .
after the center display of the vehicle has rebooted , verify that the configuration changes are complete .
position the wheel cone on the center clamp and wheel , and then tighten the cone on the center clamp .
position the wheel to the vehicle , and then handtighten the lug nuts .
press the center of the cap firmly onto the wheel until it snaps into place .
remove the object .
use a plastic scraper tool to remove all existing wheel weights . discard the wheel weights . note thoroughly clean all adhesive residue .
remove the front subframe . see subframe assembly front .
attach the air chuck to the valve stem , then set the correct pressure on the touchscreen . the balancer automatically adjusts the tire pressure . note use the tire sticker values displayed on the lower bpillar .
remove the front drive unit stand and transmission jack from the front drive unit .
program the tpms sensor id . see tpms .
remove the support stand from underneath the lh rear suspension .
install the clip that attach es the lh front abs wheel speed sensor to the lh front knuckle .
attach the drive unit sling tool to the gantry .
position the subframe lifting tool under , and up against the rear subframe .
install hv cap to penthouse note 1x cap
select `` actions/autodiag '' and search for `` learntptype '' .
position the upper bead roller at the edge of the upper rim , and then positon the lower bead roller at the edge of the lower rim .
partially tighten the lug nuts in a starshaped sequence until the wheel is secured to the hub .
remove the package tray trim . see trim package tray .
disconnect toolbox and remove the laptop from the vehicle .
if the tire has a foam sound absorber , cut out a section of the foam with a radius of 50 mm from the puncture .
move a coolant catcher under the front subframe and fixture assembly .
disconnect the air chuck , and then install the valve stem cap on the valve stem .
install the front aero shield panel to the vehicle . see panel aero shield front .
remove the spring compressor from the lh coil spring .
install the new bolt that attaches the lh front abs wheel speed sensor to the lh front knuckle . 5 nm
raise the sling tool so that there is a slight tension on the cables .
with the help of an assistant , fully secure the straps that attach the rear subframe to the subframe lifting tool .
remove logic cap and connect the hvc logic connector note 1x connector , 1x cap , align connector then pull the handle to locking position get connector fully seated
select the `` proc_vcsec_x_learntptype '' action , and then click run to make sure the gateway uses the ble tpms .
rotate the tire to loosen the upper bead . lubricate the bead as the tire rotates . note the tpms sensor is close to the rim . do not damage the tpms sensor when loosening the upper bead .
rotate the wheel to loosen the upper and lower tire beads . lubricate the beads as the wheel rotates . caution the tpms sensor is near the rim . do not damage the tpms sensor when loosening the upper bead .
lower the vehicle . see raise vehicle 2 post lift .
disconnect the tpms module electrical connector .
use the carbide cutter to clean the puncture .
attach the air chuck to the valve stem , then set the correct pressure on the touchscreen . the balancer automatically adjusts the tire pressure . note use the tire sticker values displayed on the door jam .
release the clip , disconnect the front drive unit inverter to heat exchanger hose from the front drive unit inverter outlet , plug the inverter fitting , and then allow the hose to drain . note use a foldable funnel to direct flow . figure 3 . heat pump model 3 figure 4 . model 3
use the balancer to spin the wheel .
insert the output hose of the fluid transfer pump into the fill hole of the front drive unit until fully seated , and then pull the output hose back 5mm .
install the lh rear suspension cover to the lower aft link , and then install the bolt that attaches the suspension cover to the link . 6 nm
install the lh front wheel and handtighten the wheel lug nuts .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh mount of the rear drive unit to the rear subframe .
use a paint pen to trace around the lh and rh rear subframe mounting bolts , so that the bolts can be realigned later during the subframe installation .
install 12v cap to penthouse note 1x cap
position the lower bead roller at the edge of the rim .
position the tire machine arm at the edge of the rim , and then use a bead lever to hook the arm on the upper tire bead . caution position the tpms sensor ahead of the tire machine arm so that when the wheel rotates , the arm does not damage the tpms sensor .
fully tighten the lug nuts in a starshaped sequence . 175 nm
release the tab and slide the tpms module towards the front of the vehicle , and then remove the module from the vehicle .
inside the tire , center a minicombi insert over the puncture , and trace a circle approximately 15 mm larger than the insert .
disconnect the air chuck from the valve stem .
release the clip , disconnect the front drive unit inverter to heat exchanger hose from the front drive unit heat exchanger , plug the heat exchanger fitting , and then allow the hose to drain . note use a foldable funnel to direct flow . figure 5 . heat pump model 3 figure 6 . model 3
install new wheel weight centered on the red laser line projected by the balancer . note press and hold the balancer brake pedal to keep the wheel from spinning . note clean the wheel surface and let dry before installing wheel weight .
handtighten the lh axle nut again .
lower the vehicle until the tires are touching the ground . see raise vehicle 2 post lift .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the rh bushing of the rear drive unit to the rear subframe .
use a paint pen to apply a witness mark where the rear subframe contacts the body at the lh and rh rear subframe mounting bolts , so that the subframe can be realigned to the body later during subframe installation .
connect 12v negative terminal note 1x nut , 10mm , 6 nm
rotate the tire to loosen the lower bead . lubricate the bead as the tire rotates .
rotate the wheel to pull the upper tire bead above the rim . lubricate the bead as the wheel rotates . caution make sure the tire machine arm does not contact the tpms sensor .
install the wheel cap , if equipped . see cap wheel .
install the tpms module on the vehicle by sliding the tpms module towards the rear of the vehicle until the tab is attached .
apply prebuff cleaner to the traced area .
release the clips that attach the front drive unit inverter to heat exchanger hose to the front drive unit , and then remove the hose from the front drive unit . figure 7 . heat pump model 3 figure 8 . model 3
spin the wheel again to confirm that the wheel is balanced .
install the rear lh abs wheel speed sensor to the lh rear knuckle , and then install a new bolt to secure the sensor to the knuckle . 5 nm
fully tighten the wheel lug nuts . see wheel .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the rear bushing of the rear drive unit to the rear subframe .
remove the small bolts that attach the lh shear plate to the hv battery .
install 2nd row seat cushion and connect harness note 2x connectors , 2x clips , insert the seat belt buckles through the holes , slide rear cushion inward then align front guide tabs to locking tabs , make sure cushion is fully seated with push & pull test near clips
click read config , and then click run to verify that the vehicle configuration change was performed .
position the mount head at the edge of the rim , then lift the mount head to hook the upper bead .
lift the tire and repeat the 2 previous steps on the lower tire bead , and then remove the tire from the wheel . caution make sure the tire machine arm does not contact the tpms sensor .
connect the tpms module electrical connector .
use the liner scraper to scrape the traced area .
release the clip , disconnect the front drive unit inverter inlet hose from the front drive unit inverter inlet , plug the inverter fitting , and then allow the hose to drain . note use a foldable funnel to direct flow .
remove the balancer wing nut , and then remove the wheel from the balancer .
with an assistant , pump edf2 gearbox fluid into the front drive unit assembly as follows : note the minimum refill capacity of the front drive unit assembly is 1.3 liters . using excess gearbox fluid in the fill container allows the oil pump to dispense the full 1.3l without drawing air . make sure that there is less than 200ml left when completed . pumping the full 1.5 liters is not required . pump 5 full strokes from the fluid container with the manual pump . run the oil pump via the switch box for the entire fill , and then keep running the oil pump until the fill plug is installed . caution do not run the oil pump dry . caution if the oil pump is not running and the fill plug is not installed , the edf2 gearbox fluid will drain from the fill plug within 10 seconds .
install the grommet and fasten the clip that attach the rear lh abs wheel speed sensor cable to the rear lh knuckle and subframe bracket .
fully tighten the new lh front drive unit halfshaft nut and washers . 300 nm note the washers are attached to the nut .
raise the drive unit sling tool to lift the rear drive unit out of the rear subframe .
remove the large bolt that attaches the lh shear plate and rear subframe to the body , and then remove shear plate .
move rh front seat to original position
rotate the tire to pull the upper bead above the rim . lubricate the bead as the tire rotates .
remove the lh center console side panel carpet . see side panel center console lh .
remove the nut that attaches the tpms sensor to the wheel , and then remove the sensor from the wheel .
remove the rear lh wheel . see wheel .
install the package tray trim . see trim package tray .
repeat step 6 and step 7 until the traced area is fully cleaned .
install the wheel weights : touch start . the balancer rotates the wheel and projects a red line on the center of the proper weight position . press and hold the brake pedal to keep the wheel from spinning . clean the wheel surface thoroughly and allow it to dry . apply the weights specified by the balancer , centered on the red line .
release the clips that attach the front drive unit inverter inlet hose to the front drive unit , and then remove the hose from the drive unit .
install the fill plug on the front drive unit . 15 nm
install the bolts that attach the lh rear caliper bracket to the knuckle . 80 nm
install the wheel center cap . see cap wheel .
lower the rear drive unit into an empty crate or pallet .
remove the small bolts that attach the rh shear plate to the hv battery .
move lh front seat to original position
use the lower bead roller to lift the tire off of the rim .
remove the cone and center clamp from the wheel , and then remove the wheel from the tire machine .
release the clip that attaches the rear abs wheel speed sensor connector to the subframe , and then disconnect the subframe harness from the connector . tip : use a mechanical pickup tool to hold the connector in place , and then release the connector clip with a screwdriver .
install the rh upper cpillar trim . see trim cpillar upper lh .
lightly buff the traced area until smooth . note if the cords are exposed , stop the procedure and mount a new tire onto the wheel . see tire front lh .
repeat step 13 to install additional weights , if prompted by the balancer .
release the locking tab , push the handle downward , and then disconnect the subframe electrical harness from the front drive unit inverter logic connector .
remove the oil drain container from underneath the front drive unit .
install the bolt that attaches the electrical harness bracket to the lh rear brake caliper . 5 nm
remove the vehicle from the lift and drive the vehicle onto an alignment rack .
remove the drive unit sling tool from the rear drive unit .
remove the large bolt that attaches the rh shear plate and rear subframe to the body , and then remove shear plate .
install rear apron note 12x clips , if present untuck cut loop label and make sure it is still visible after apron is installed , later builds may not have label
thoroughly lubricate both sides of the beads of the new tire .
remove the front lh wheel . see wheel .
if needed , chock the wheels .
remove the driver footwell cover . see cover footwell driver .
partially raise the vehicle to a comfortable working height . see raise vehicle 2 post lift .
position the new wheel on the tire machine , with the front of the wheel facing up .
install the rh side rail trim . see trim side rail lh ..
vacuum any debris from the inside of the tire .
lower the hood . the balancer checks the balance again . follow the onscreen instructions if the wheel is still not balanced .
release the clips that attach the subframe electrical harness to the inverter .
connect the electrical harness to the lh rear brake caliper connector .
fully tighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh strut to the lh front lower lateral link , and then mark the bolt and nut with a paint pen . 106 nm 106 nm
attach the drive unit sling tool to the new rear drive unit .
remove and discard the lh rear subframe bolt that attaches the subframe to the body .
close hood
if the tire has `` outside '' , `` side facing outwards '' , or a direction of rotation arrow on the sidewall , make sure that the tire is oriented properly .
remove the front lh wheel arch liner . see wheel arch liner front lh .
position the oil drain under the brake line junction block .
remove the driver knee airbag . see airbag knee driver .
remove the lh and rh wiper arms . see wiper arms .
remove and discard the bolt that attaches the rear lh abs wheel speed sensor to the knuckle , and then remove the sensor from the vehicle .
install the rh 2nd row seat side bolster . see bolster side seat 2nd row lh .
apply blue cement into the puncture and apply a thin layer to the traced area .
record the road force on the repair order .
release the clip that attaches the subframe electrical harness to the front drive unit motor . figure 9 . heat pump model 3 figure 10 . model 3
connect the oil pump connector , and then engage the locking tab . important : perform a pushpull test to verify that the connector is fully attached .
install the lh rear wheel arch liner . see wheel arch liner rear lh .
raise the new rear drive unit out of the crate .
remove and discard the rh rear subframe bolt that attaches the subframe to the body .
raise all the windows
push the lower bead of the tire over the rim by hand .
disconnect the electrical harness from the front lh abs wheel speed sensor connector .
select actions , and then type `` proc_epb '' in the search field .
remove the brake line tube nut from the junction block , and allow the fluid to drain .
remove the lh footwell duct . see duct footwell lh .
remove the driver knee airbag cover and. , if equipped , the driver knee airbag . see airbag knee driver .
remove the lh and rh shock tower covers . see cover shock tower lh .
install the rear lh abs wheel speed sensor to the knuckle , and then install a new bolt to attach the sensor to the knuckle . 5 nm
install the lh upper cpillar trim . see trim cpillar upper lh .
remove the protective cover from the minicombi insert and insert the guide pin into the puncture and out through the tire tread .
pull the red locking tab out of the connector , and then pull the red tab again to disconnect the subframe electrical harness from the oil pump connector .
install the lh rear wheel , and then handtighten the lug nuts that attach the lh rear wheel to the hub .
move the new rear drive unit over the rear subframe .
carefully lower the subframe and rear drive unit assembly approximately 8.25 cm from the vehicle . warning do not lower the subframe any more than 8.25 cm as suspension and brake components are still attached to both the subframe and the body .
close all four doors
position the mount head on the upper bead .
release the clips and remove the grommet that attach the front lh abs wheel speed sensor to the body and front lh suspension .
while holding down the brake pedal , click the play button next to `` proc_epbl_startservicemode '' , and then select run . note continue holding down the brake pedal until the routine finishes . note to release the rh parking brake , click the play button next to `` proc_epbr_startservicemode '' , and then select run .
position the oil drain under the rear rh brake hose .
position the oil drain under the rear lh brake hose .
disconnect the electrical harness from the brake light switch connector .
lhd models only : remove the driver footwell duct . see duct footwell lh
inspect the tpms seal and replace the seal if it is damaged .
remove the cowl screen panel . see panel cowl screen .
fasten the clip and install the grommet that attach the rear lh abs wheel speed sensor cable to the rear lh knuckle and bracket . caution perform a pushpull check on the clip and grommet to make sure they are securely fastened to the knuckle and bracket .
install the lh side rail trim . see trim side rail lh ..
use pliers to pull on the guide pin until the base of the minicombi insert is flush with the inside surface of the tire , and there is a slight dimple .
loosen the wingnut and remove the outer flange plate from the wheel .
use the halfshaft removal cable with the slide hammer to loosen the lh front halfshaft from the front drive unit , and then fold the lh knuckle outward to remove the halfshaft from the drive unit .
lower the vehicle and put the vehicle into park .
with an assistant , lower the drive unit sling tool to install the new rear drive unit into the rear subframe .
tilt the subframe fixture forward in order to access motor mount fasteners .
use the bead press arm to push down on the sidewall .
remove and discard the bolt that attaches the front lh abs wheel speed sensor to the knuckle , and then remove the sensor from the vehicle .
remove all wheels . see wheel .
the vehicle is now in epb service mode .
remove the brake line tube nut from the brake hose at the jounce hose bracket , and allow the fluid to drain .
rotate the brake light switch 45 degrees counterclockwise , and then remove brake light switch from the accelerator and brake pedal assembly . caution after the brake light switch has been removed , do not allow anything to touch , bump , strike , or press the brake pedal , until the brake light switch is securely installed .
disconnect the brake pedal and the accelerator pedal electrical connector s .
remove the hood latch cover . see cover hood latch .
position the tpms sensor on the wheel , and then install the nut that attaches the sensor to the wheel . 8 nm
remove the wiper motor . see wiper module .
connect the subframe harness to the rear abs wheel speed sensor connector , and then fasten the clip that attaches the connector to the subframe .
roll the stitcher over the base working from the center outward , to fully adhere the base to the tire .
remove the wheel from the balancer .
use the halfshaft removal cable with the slide hammer to loosen the rh front halfshaft from the front drive unit , and then fold the rh knuckle outward to remove the halfshaft from the drive unit .
in toolbox , click the play button next to `` testself_dif_x_oilpumppressure '' and select run . note this test might take up to 5 times to successfully run . if this test keeps failing , add additional fluid , if needed .
remove the bolts that attach the lh motor mount to the front drive unit , and then remove the mount from the drive unit .
tighten the lh rear axle nut . 300 nm
install and handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the rear bushing of the rear drive unit to the rear subframe .
insert a rubber or wood block between the rear drive unit and the subframe fixture so as to support the rear drive unit while the lh mount is removed .
slowly rotate the tire to push the upper bead below the rim .
install the front lh abs wheel speed sensor to the knuckle , and then install a new bolt to attach the sensor to the knuckle . 5 nm
to disable epb service mode , shift the vehicle into park .
release the clips that attach the brake line to the body , and then remove the brake line from the vehicle .
make sure that the following conditions are met before starting to install the brake switch : the brake booster and the brake pedal must be installed in the vehicle before the installation of the brake switch . the brake pedal is in the home position .
remove the lh and rh front wheel center caps . see cap wheel .
remove the brake light switch . see switch brake light .
remove the underhood storage unit carpet . see carpet underhood storage .
lubricate both tire beads .
remove the hvac plenum outer duct . see duct hvac plenum outer .
install the rear lh wheel . see wheel .
remove the protective cover from the base and apply generous amounts of sealant to the base and traced area .
move the subframe lifting tool to under the gantry .
attach an electrostatic discharge wrist strap to the front drive unit inverter housing .
tighten the wheel lug nuts . 175 nm
install and handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the rh bushing of the rear drive unit to the rear subframe .
remove the lh mount bolt that attaches the rear drive unit lh mount to the rear subframe . note use a pry bar between the block and rear drive unit to unload the bolt so that it can be removed .
attach the air chuck to the valve stem .
fasten the clips and install the grommet that attach the front lh abs wheel speed sensor cable to the body and front lh suspension . caution perform a pushpull check on each clip and the grommet to make sure they are fully attached to the body , to the upper control arm , and to the knuckle .
lower the vehicle .
install the brake line to the body , and then fasten the clips that attach the brake line to the body .
gently insert the brake light switch into the clip until it stops . caution do not push so hard as to move the brake pedal . if the brake pedal has moved , remove the brake light switch and repeat this step .
lower the vehicle , and then loosen the front and rear wheel lug nuts .
remove the brake clevis pin cotter pin .
inspect both sides of the tire sidewall to determine proper tire orientation in relation to the wheel . note look for an arrow that indicates rotation direction , or words such as `` outside '' or `` side facing outwards '' .
remove the hvac plenum inner duct . see duct hvac plenum inner .
perform a test drive that includes a minimum speed of 25mph in straight line for at least five seconds to allow the esp internal system checks to complete . the esp faults will clear if the vehicle is repaired correctly . if faults are persistent after the test drive , continue troubleshooting the repair .
update the vehicle firmware . see firmware update .
cut the guide pin flush to the tread .
use the shackles to attach the drive unit sling tool to the front drive unit .
remove and discard the front drive unit phase out cover label .
install the lh rear wheel center cap or the hub cap .
install and handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh mount of the rear drive unit to the rear subframe .
release the clip that attaches the rear drive unit ground strap to the rear subframe .
use the foot pedal to inflate the tire to approximately 40 psi and seat the beads . warning the pressure gauge shows accurate pressure when the pedal is released . repeatedly press and release the pedal to avoid overinflation . warning do not exceed the pressure indicated on the tire sidewall .
connect the electrical harness to the front lh abs wheel speed sensor connector .
remove the lh rear wheel . see wheel .
insert the brake line into the brake hose at the jounce hose bracket , and then use a crowfoot extension to install the brake line tube nut into the brake hose . 16 nm
rotate the switch 45 degrees clockwise to secure the brake light switch in the accelerator and brake pedal assembly . note make sure that the brake switch electrical connector release tab is toward the rh side of the vehicle with the connector pins vertical .
loosen the lh and rh front drive unit halfshaft nuts .
remove the brake clevis pin that attaches the brake pedal to the electromechanical brake booster .
remove the wiper arms . see wiper arms .
position the tire on top of the wheel , and then move the tire machine arm into position to install the lower tire bead .
remove the 12v auxiliary battery . see 12v/lv battery .
perform the tpms module sensor id learn procedure . see tpms .
mount the tire onto the wheel . see tire front lh . note use the locating marks made before dismounting the tire .
remove the bolts that attach the front drive unit phase out cover to the front drive unit ..
lower the drive unit sling tool to release the tension on the cables .
release the clip , disconnect the rear drive unit inverter to heat exchanger hose from the rear drive unit inverter outlet , and then immediately plug both fittings .
remove the air chuck from the valve stem , then install the valve core .
install the front lh wheel arch liner . see wheel arch liner front lh .
disconnect the electrical harness from the lh rear brake caliper connector .
insert the brake line into the junction block , and then use a crowfoot extension to install the brake line tube nut into the junction block . 16 nm
connect the electrical harness to the brake light switch connector , and then perform a pushpullpush check to make sure the connection is secure .
make sure the front wheels are pointed straight ahead , and then center and lock the steering wheel using a bubble leveler and steering wheel holder .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the brake pedal assembly .
rotate the wheel to install the lower tire bead . caution make sure the tire machine arm does not contact the tpms sensor .
disconnect the electrical harness from the brake fluid reservoir connector . figure 1 . lefthand drive shown , righthand drive similar
remove the 12v battery bracket . rwd : bracket 12v battery dual motor : bracket 12v battery
use the gantry to raise the drive unit sling tool so that there is slight tension in the cables .
remove the front drive unit phase out cover . note inspect the condition of the cover and orings . if either are damaged , a new cover must be installed .
remove the drive unit sling tool from the gantry .
release the clip that attaches the rear drive unit inverter to heat exchanger hose to the rear drive unit lh mount .
set the tire pressure according to the wheel size . note use the tire sticker values displayed on the door jam . if unavailable , use these values : 18 inch wheels 42 psi 19 inch wheels 42 psi
install the front lh wheel . see wheel .
remove the bolt that attach the electrical harness bracket to the lh rear brake caliper .
bleed the brake line for the rear lh caliper . see brake fluid bleed one caliper .
install the lh footwell duct . see duct footwell lh .
remove and discard the nuts that attach the brake pedal assembly to the vehicle .
move the tire machine arm into position to install the upper tire bead .
disconnect the electrical harness connectors from the electromechanical brake booster connector .
remove the front body controller module . rwd : module body controller front dual motor : module body controller front
remove the bolt that attaches the front drive unit to the front of the front subframe . note raise or lower the drive unit sling tool to aid in removing the bolt .
remove the bolts that attach the front drive unit motor 3phase terminals to the front drive unit inverter 3phase terminals .
remove the bolts that attach the rear drive unit lh mount to the rear drive unit .
balance the tire . see tire front lh .
connect the epb release tool to the lh rear brake caliper connector .
bleed the brake line for the rear rh caliper . see brake fluid bleed one caliper .
install the driver knee airbag . see airbag knee driver .
remove the brake pedal and the accelerator pedal as an assembly from the vehicle .
disconnect the electrical connector from the brake fluid reservoir .
rotate the wheel to install the upper tire bead . caution make sure the tire machine arm does not contact the tpms sensor .
place absorbent material under the reservoir and booster .
disconnect the electrical harness from the brake fluid reservoir connector .
with the help of an assistant , use the gantry to raise the drive unit sling tool , guide halfshafts away from the front drive unit , and separate the front drive unit up from the front subframe . note make sure that the front drive unit rear support posts are not moved out of their current position
remove the bolts that attach the front drive unit inverter to the front drive unit gearbox .
tighten the lh mount , rh bushing , and rear bushing bolts and nuts that attach the rear drive unit to the rear subframe . 70 nm
remove the rear drive unit lh mount up , over , and out between the rear subframe and the body .
remove the 12 battery bracket . see bracket 12v battery .
use the epb release tool to fully release the parking brake .
install the driver footwell cover . see cover footwell driver .
if a new brake pedal assembly is to be installed , install a new brake switch clip into the assembly .
place absorbent towels under the brake fluid reservoir .
carefully inflate the tire to specification . the tire beads will seat against the wheel . warning do not exceed the air pressure indicated on the tire sidewall . caution wear proper ppe , such as safety glasses and gloves .
remove brake fluid from the reservoir .
disconnect the electrical harness from the electromechanical brake booster connector .
move the front subframe and subframe lift out from underneath the front drive unit .
carefully remove the inverter assembly from the front drive unit , remove the plugs , and allow the coolant to drain .
connect the electrical harness to the oil pump connector .
put on the esd wrist strap and attach it to the rear drive unit inverter housing .
remove the bolts that attach g098 and g099 to the body .
if the parking brake : released , go to step 12 . did not release , go to step 8 .
install the lh center console side panel carpet . see side panel center console lh .
install the brake pedal assembly onto the studs of the body .
clean the area around the brake fluid reservoir , and then remove the brake fluid reservoir cap .
use a valve core tool to install the valve core .
loosen the nuts that attach the brake lines to the booster , and then slide the nuts back on the brake lines . figure 2 . lhd shown , rhd similar
set the front drive unit down onto an appropriate surface , continue lowering to put slack into the drive sling tool cables , and then remove the shackles from the drive unit .
place the removed front drive unit inverter onto an esd mat , and then remove the esd wrist strap from the inverter .
connect the electrical harness to the resolver connector .
remove and discard the rear drive unit phase out cover label to access the bolts behind .
release the white clip that attaches the main front harness to the body .
remove the lh and rh lower rocker panel covers . see cover rocker panel lower lh .
position an oil drain underneath the lh rear brake caliper .
review the bleeder service tool profile .
remove the hvac plenum inner duct . see duct hvac plenum inner
install new nuts that attach the brake pedal assembly to the vehicle . 16.5 nm
use a brake fluid syringe to remove the brake fluid from the reservoir .
remove fluid from the reservoir .
open the crate for the new front drive unit , remove the protective covers from the new drive unit , and transfer them to the old drive unit .
inspect the front drive unit gearbox housing to make sure that there is no gap pad stuck there . if there is , remove the gap pad , clean the area with an alcohol wipe , and allow at least one minute to dry .
remove the lh halfshaft plug from the gearbox , and then with assistance , install the lh rear drive unit halfshaft into the rear drive unit . caution take care not to damage or displace the oil seal . caution make sure that the opening of the snap ring is facing towards the bottom of the drive unit . note move the rear knuckle assembly aside to provide enough clearance to safely install the rear drive unit halfshaft . note new rear drive units come prefilled with gearbox fluid . clean up any leaks during installation and top off the gearbox fluid as necessary . for more information , search for 144627600b in the service tooling catalog .
remove the bolts that attach the phase out cover to the rear drive unit gearbox , and then use a plastic trim tool to remove the cover from the gearbox .
release the black clip that attaches the main front harness to the body .
remove the battery bracket . see bracket 12v battery .
remove the hv battery . see hv battery .
remove lh and rh front wheel arch liners . see wheel arch liner front lh .
remove the bolts that attach the parking brake motor to the lh rear brake caliper , and remove the motor from the caliper .
clean the area around the brake fluid reservoir and then remove the brake fluid reservoir cap .
raise the vehicle and remove all four wheels . see wheel .
remove the bolt that attaches the electric steering column to the steering rack assembly . figure 1 . lhd shown , rhd similar
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the brake pedal assembly .
install the brake fluid reservoir cap .
balance the wheel and tire . see tire front lh .
release the clip that attaches the driver knee airbag cover to the air duct , release the clips that attach the driver knee airbag cover to the vehicle , and then remove the cover .
loosen the nuts that attach the brake lines to the booster , and then slide the nuts back on the brake lines . 16 nm
move the gantry to the new front drive unit .
secure esd strap to new inverter housing
inspect the condition of the phase out cover and orings . if the cover or orings are damaged , discard the cover and use a new cover for installation .
set the steering wheel straight ahead and lock it into position .
remove any wheel caps or covers , and then loosen the lh rear wheel lug nuts . do not remove the wheel at this time . see wheel .
remove the lh front brake rotor . see brake rotor front lh .
loosen the wheel lugnuts .
disconnect the electrical connector from the abs modulator .
raise the vehicle and remove the lh rear wheel . see wheel .
remove the bolts that attach the shock tower brace to the body , and slide the lh side of the brace forward to allow access to the abs unit fittings .
remove the lh front wheel arch liner . see wheel arch liner front lh .
remove the front hv battery skid plate . see skid plate hv battery front .
manually rotate the shaft in the caliper to fully release the parking brake .
remove the bolt that attaches the brake hose bracket to the front lh knuckle .
remove the front rh pinwheel cap , if installed . see cap wheel .
lower the vehicle to a working height .
click on `` actions '' and type `` brake switch '' into the search field .
slide the electric steering column upward to remove it from the steering rack assembly . figure 2 . lhd shown , rhd similar
install the brake clevis pin that attaches the brake pedal to the electromechanical brake booster .
loosen the nuts that attach the brake lines to the booster , and then slide the nuts back on the brake lines .
remove the brake switch . see switch brake light .
use the shackles to attach the drive unit sling tool to the new front drive unit .
inspect the condition of the gap pad on the inverter pcb . replace the gap pad if it does not fulfill these criteria : new and undamaged condition . fully covers the discharge resistor array and no resistors are visible . clean and free of debris . evenly adhered to the inverter pcb .
install the lh halfshaft to the hub and knuckle assembly .
remove the bolts that attach the rear drive unit motor 3phase terminals to the rear drive unit lh inverter 3phase terminals .
remove the front aero shield . see panel aero shield front .
raise the vehicle and remove the wheel for the caliper to be bled . see wheel .
remove the bolts that attach the lh front brake dust shield to the knuckle , and then remove the dust shield from the vehicle . 8 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : t30 socket 4 in extension
raise the vehicle on a 2post lift only enough that the wheels no longer contact the floor .
release the clips that attach the main front harness near the lh frame rail .
use toolbox to place the vehicle into epb service mode . see release parking brake using toolbox .
disconnect the electrical harness from the abs unit connector .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the lh frame rail .
replace the lh rear brake caliper . see brake caliper rear lh .
position the oil drain under the front lh brake hose .
remove the cover from the outer brake bleed valve of the front rh caliper .
connect the vehicle to toolbox 3 .
click the play button next to `` test_brakedi_x_stiffnesstestpressureunburnishedanddibrakeswitch '' , and then select run . if the test fails , refer to toolbox article # 52544 for additional information . if the test passes , disconnect the laptop from the vehicle .
disconnect the electrical connectors from the steering rack assembly . figure 3 . lhd shown , rhd similar
install the brake clevis pin cotter pin .
remove the nuts that attach the master cylinder to the brake booster .
release the brake clevis clip from the clevis pin . figure 3 . lhd shown , rhd similar
use an ipa wipe to clean the hv mating surfaces of the front drive unit motor and front drive unit inverter 3phase terminals .
with an assistant , handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh toe link to the knuckle . note the bolt and nut will be tightened to specification during the four wheel alignment at the end of the rear subframe assembly procedure .
remove the bolts that attach the rear drive unit inverter to the rear drive unit gearbox ..
press and hold the brake pedal , then on the vehicle touchscreen , touch controls , touch service , touch towing , and then touch and hold the transport mode button until it turns blue to activate transport mode
place the oil drain under the abs modulator .
disconnect the electrical wiring harness connector from the parking brake .
release the clips that attach the lh front electrical harness to the lh front frame rail .
position the oil drain under the front brake line junction block .
disconnect the epb release tool from the lh rear brake caliper connector .
release the clip that attaches the brake hose to the jounce hose bracket , and then remove the hose from the bracket .
remove the bolt that attaches the brake hose to the brake caliper , and allow the fluid to drain . note the bolt and washers are captive and can not be reused . replace the hose assembly if the bolt is loosened or removed .
position a shop towel over the wheel spokes so as to protect from brake fluid .
in toolbox , type `` bleed '' into the search field and click actions .
remove the 12v battery . see 12v/lv battery .
install the brake light switch . see switch brake light . note install a new brake switch if the existing one was damaged during removal . note confirm that the brake pedal is in the home position : push the brake pedal switch into the clip until it stops , and then twist the brake switch clockwise 45 degrees to set the brake switch in position . do not push the brake pedal switch too hard as to move the brake pedal .
remove the master cylinder and reservoir assembly from the vehicle . note make sure the master cylinder oring is also removed .
remove the clevis pin from the brake pedal assembly . figure 4 . lhd shown , rhd similar
remove the bolts that attach the new front drive unit to the front drive unit crate .
install a new front drive unit inverter gasket onto the inverter .
with an assistant , handtighten the bolt and nut that attach lh upper fore link to the knuckle . note the bolt and nut will be tightened to specification during the four wheel alignment at the end of the rear subframe assembly procedure .
carefully remove the rear drive unit inverter from the rear drive unit gearbox , and move the inverter down and out between the rear subframe and drive unit . caution take care not to damage the inverter circuit board when removing the inverter .
remove the lh rear wheel . see raise vehicle 2 post lift .
raise the vehicle to a working height .
remove the rh front brake line pipe nut from the abs modulator .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the lh rear caliper to the lh rear knuckle , remove the caliper from the knuckle , and allow the caliper to hang from an shook . 83 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : external torx e18 ratchet/torque wrench
remove and discard the bolts that attach the lh front electrical harness ground straps to the lh shock tower , and then move the electrical harness aside .
remove the brake line tube nuts from the junction block . allow the fluid to drain . use a crowfoot extension to torque the nuts for installation . 23 nm
repeat step 2 through step 12 for the rh rear brake caliper if necessary .
position the oil drain under the brake caliper .
loosen the brake bleed valve only enough to allow a drop of brake fluid to seep out , and then close the valve .
remove the battery bracket . see bracket 12v battery . note it is not required to remove the front body controller module from the vehicle .
connect the brake pedal and the accelerator pedal electrical connector s .
position the master cylinder and reservoir assembly in the vehicle . caution handle the electromechanical brake booster only by the main housing . do not use the pushrod , the reservoir , or the connectors to lift or manipulate the electromechanical brake booster . caution when positioning the brake master cylinder against the brake booster , make sure the booster rod goes into the master cylinder . figure 1 . position the reservoir and master cylinder in the vehicle figure 2 . align the brake booster rod with the master cylinder port
remove and discard the nuts that attach the brake booster to the bulkhead , and then remove the brake booster from the vehicle . caution handle the electromechanical brake booster only by the main housing . do not use the pushrod , the reservoir , or the connectors to lift or manipulate the electromechanical brake booster . figure 5 . lhd shown , rhd similar figure 6 . lhd shown , rhd similar
release the clip from the clevis pin , and then remove the clevis pin from the brake pedal arm .
raise the new front drive unit out of the front drive unit crate .
carefully align the front drive unit inverter to the 2 pins in the front drive unit , and then install the inverter onto the drive unit . make sure that the 3phase terminals align during installation . caution avoid damage to the printed circuit board of the inverter .
with an assistant , handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the upper aft link to the knuckle . note the bolt and nut will be tightened to specification during the four wheel alignment at the end of the rear subframe assembly procedure .
remove the plugs from the inverter and drain the coolant .
clean the area around the brake fluid reservoir breather cap and remove the cap .
remove the lh rear brake rotor . see brake rotor rear lh .
remove all four wheels .
remove the lh rear brake line pipe nut from the abs modulator .
use the caliper spreader tool to push the caliper pistons to the fully open position .
position the oil drain under the abs unit .
position the oil drain under the rear brake line junction block .
remove the bolt that attaches the flexible brake hose to the brake caliper , and then remove the hose from the vehicle . note the bolt and washers are captive and can not be reused . replace the hose assembly if the bolt is loosened or removed .
remove the nut that attaches the lh front jounce bracket to the vehicle , and then remove the lh front flexible brake hose from the vehicle .
remove a brake test strip from the container , and then close the container .
disconnect the electrical harness from the chiller and exv assembly hose coolant temperature sensor connector .
lhd models only : install the driver footwell duct . see duct footwell lh
install the nuts that attach the master cylinder to the brake booster . 20 nm
position the brake booster on the vehicle , and then install the new nuts that attach the booster to the bulkhead . 16.5 nm caution handle the electromechanical brake booster only by the main housing . do not use the pushrod , the reservoir , or the connectors to lift or manipulate the electromechanical brake booster . figure 7 . lhd shown , rhd similar
remove and discard the nuts that attach the brake booster to the bulkhead , and then remove the brake booster from the vehicle . 16.5 nm caution handle the electromechanical brake booster only by the main housing . do not use the pushrod , the reservoir , or the connectors to lift or manipulate the electromechanical brake booster .
move the front subframe and subframe lift to underneath the new front drive unit .
install and handtighten the bolts that attach the front drive unit inverter to the front drive unit gearbox .
install the washer , and install a new nut to attach the halfshaft to the lh rear hub . 300 nm
set the rear drive unit inverter onto an esd mat , and then remove the esd wrist strap clip from the inverter housing .
remove the bolt that attaches the steering shaft to steering rack .
add clean brake fluid to the max level in the reservoir .
remove the bolts that attach the lh rear brake dust shield to the knuckle , and then remove the dust shield from the vehicle .
remove and discard the lh rear drive unit halfshaft nut .
turn the front wheel hubs to point fully right .
remove the rh rear brake line pipe nut from the abs modulator .
remove the bolt that attaches the brake rotor to the hub , and then remove the brake rotor from the hub . 5 nm note store the rotor face down to reduce likelihood of damage to the rotor face . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
remove the brake line tube nuts from the abs unit , and allow the fluid to drain .
position the lh rear flexible brake hose into the vehicle , and then install the bolt that attaches the hose to the lh rear brake caliper . 42 nm note the bolt and washers are captive in the new hose assembly .
position the lh front flexible brake hose into the vehicle , and then install the nut that attaches the lh front jounce bracket to the vehicle . 6 nm
touch the square pad of the test strip to the fluid , remove the test strip from the wheel , gently shake the test strip over a shop towel to remove excess brake fluid , and start a 90 second timer .
release the clip that attaches the 12v battery vent hose to the chillercar computer and hv battery supply manifold hose .
install the driver knee airbag cover and , if equipped , the driver knee airbag . see airbag knee driver .
remove the brake line plugs from the brake master cylinder .
align the brake pedal with the brake booster rod , and then install the clevis pin on the brake pedal assembly . figure 8 . lhd shown , rhd similar
fill the brake fluid reservoir .
with the help of an assistant , use the gantry to lower the drive unit sling tool , guide halfshafts away from the new front drive unit , and lower the new front drive unit into the front subframe . note make sure that the front drive unit rear support posts are in the same position as when the old front drive unit was lifted .
torque the bolts in the sequence shown . 12.5 nm
inspect the rear drive unit gearbox housing to make sure that there is no gap pad stuck there . if there is , remove the gap pad , clean the area with an alcohol wipe , and allow at least one minute to dry . note also inspect the gearbox housing and remove any dropped fasteners or loose debris .
slide the steering shaft off the steering rack and out of the way to gain access to the brake lines .
attach the pressure cap to the reservoir .
position the lh rear brake dust shield on the knuckle , and then install the bolts that attach the dust shield to the knuckle . 8 nm
remove the bolt that attaches the jounce hose bracket to the front lh knuckle , and then remove the bracket from the knuckle .
use the appropriate pin punch to remove the retaining pins and antirattle spring from the front lh caliper .
remove the lh front brake line pipe nut from the modulator .
replace all patchbolts .
release the clip that attaches the brake lines to the abs unit .
remove the nut that attaches the rear junction block to the body , and separate the block from the body . 7 nm
install the lh rear wheel . see wheel .
install the brake hose into the jounce hose bracket , and then fasten the clip that attaches the hose in the bracket .
after 90 seconds , compare the color of the test strip square pad to the color chart on the side of the container . if the test strip square pad is darker than the 30 ppm color sample , a brake fluid bleed/flush is recommended . if the test strip square pad is the same color , or lighter than the 30 ppm color sample , it is recommended to repeat this brake fluid check in 2 years .
release the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the chillercar computer and hv battery supply manifold hose .
install the nuts that attach the brake lines to the master cylinder . 16 nm
install the brake clevis clip on the clevis pin . figure 9 . lhd shown , rhd similar
install the bolt that attaches the new front drive unit to the front of the front subframe . 80 nm note raise and lower the new front drive unit as necessary to ease installation of the bolt .
install and handtighten the bolts that attach the front drive unit motor 3phase terminals to the front drive unit inverter 3phase terminals .
set the pressure to 30 psi .
install the lh rear brake rotor and caliper , but do not perform any road tests . see brake rotor rear lh .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the front lh caliper to the front lh knuckle , remove the caliper from the knuckle , and then hang the caliper from an shook . caution make sure not to strain or kink the brake jounce hose .
use a caliper spreader to expand the brake pads and compress the pistons back into the front lh caliper .
remove the master cylinder secondary pipe nut from the abs modulator .
press the brake pedal at least 5 times to seat the pads against the rotor . warning always check that the brake pads are seated correctly before driving the vehicle .
release the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the brake line at the master cylinder .
release the clips that attach the brake lines to the body .
repeat step 1 and step 3 for the rh rear brake caliper if necessary .
install the brake hose to the brake caliper . 42 nm note the bolt and washers are captive in the new hose assembly .
record the test strip result and recommendation into the public notes field of the job line .
place an absorbent towel under the chiller .
remove the absorbent towels from under the brake fluid reservoir .
install the brake switch . see switch brake light .
verify the operation of the electromechanical brake booster .
lower the drive unit sling tool to put slack into the drive sling tool cables .
tighten the bolts that attach the front drive unit motor 3phase terminals to the front drive unit inverter 3phase terminals . 11.5 nm caution if any bolts are dropped into the gearbox housing , they must be retrieved . note if installing a new bolt , tighten to 12.5 nm , back off 180 degrees , then torque to 5 nm +40 degrees .
connect the subframe harness to the rear lh abs wheel speed sensor connector , and then fasten the clip that attaches the connector to the rear subframe .
perform the rest of this procedure according to the caliper you are bleeding . front caliper go to step 10 . rear caliper go to step 20 .
position the lh rear wheel on the vehicle , and then handtighten the lh rear wheel lug nuts .
position the hub puller tool on the lh rear wheel studs , and then handtighten the wheel lug nuts .
remove the brake pads from the front lh caliper . caution keep the inboard pad and the outboard pad separate and organized .
remove the master cylinder primary pipe nut from the abs modulator .
use toolbox to check the braking system .
position the oil drain under the brake booster .
remove the brake lines from the vehicle .
release the clips that attach the brake lines to the front body .
remove the oil drain from under the vehicle .
tighten the brake bleed valve . 18.5 nm
bleed the front lh brake caliper first .
release the clip that connects the hose to the chiller and exv assembly , and then disconnect the hose from the chiller .
connect the electrical connector to the brake fluid reservoir .
position the driver knee airbag cover on the vehicle , and then install the clips that attach the driver knee airbag cover to the vehicle .
bleed the braking system . see brake fluid bleed / flush .
open the shackles and remove the drive unit sling tool from the new front drive unit .
repeat step 14 through 23 on the rh side of the rear drive unit .
disconnect the coolant temperatur sensor connector from the chiller to battery coolant hose .
remove the caliper outer bleed valve cap and attach the catch bottle to the valve . note hang the bottle by the wire hook , not by the hose .
lower the vehicle , and then shift the vehicle into park .
use the hub puller to separate the halfshaft from the hub splines . tip : while holding the hub in position , turn the hydraulic hub puller tool handle clockwise to separate the lh rear drive unit halfshaft from the hub splines .
use a brush and tesla–approved brake cleaner to clean the abutment flats , the piston faces , the inner surfaces of the front lh caliper , the retaining pins , the antirattle springs , the abutment springs/clips , and the brake pad edges and surfaces that contact the caliper . caution make sure not to contaminate the friction material . figure 4 . abutment flats figure 5 . antirattle spring
burnish the brake pads . see brake pads burnishing .
remove the brake line tube nuts from the master cylinder , and allow the fluid to drain .
bleed the brake lines for the rear calipers . see brake fluid bleed one caliper .
release the clips that attach the thermal beam hose to the body .
install the brake hose to the front lh knuckle , and then install the bolt that attaches the brake hose bracket to the knuckle . 7 nm
use the shop towel to wipe any excess brake fluid from the brake bleed valve and the caliper .
move the gantry back to the old drive unit .
release clip that attaches the harness to the chiller coolant hose .
in toolbox , start the task for the particular caliper . for the front lh and rear rh calipers , run proc_esp_frontlrearr_brake_bleed . for the front rh and rear lh calipers , run proc_esp_frontrrearl_brake_bleed .
tighten lh rear wheel lug nuts . see wheel .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the lh rear hub to the knuckle , and then remove the hub from the vehicle . figure 1 . halfshaft hidden for clarity
use a brush and tesla–approved brake cleaner to clean the abutment flats , the piston faces , the inner surfaces of the front lh caliper , the retaining pins , the antirattle springs , and the brake pad edges and surfaces that contact the caliper . caution make sure not to contaminate the friction material . figure 4 . abutment flats figure 5 . retaining pins and antirattle springs
apply a thin layer of teslaapproved brake caliper lubricant to the abutment flats in the front lh caliper . caution make sure not to contaminate the piston seals or any rubber components of the caliper .
perform vehicle road test using a series of absactive stops and make sure proper brake pedal feel and performance is achieved .
connect 12v/lv power . see 12v/lv power .
put absorbent material below the coolant hose at the chiller .
open the outer bleed valve and watch the fluid as it flows out of the caliper .
release the clip that attaches the battery hose to the chiller , and then disconnect the hose .
plug the chiller coupling .
put absorbent material below the car computer coolant hose connection points to collect any spilled coolant .
disconnect the inner coolant hose to the car computer mount , and then plug the hose .
disconnect the outer coolant hose to the car computer mount , plug the hose and remove the coolant from the car computer .
open the lh front door .
install a car computer coolant plug .
lower the lh front window .
remove the bolts that attach the ground connections to the lh side of the body . note discard threadcutting trilobular bolts after removal . if equipped with new bolts , these can be reused .
apply the brake pedal depressor . note verify the brake pedal is fully pressed to avoid wheels from spinning .
release the white harness clip from the body .
connect a laptop with toolbox to the vehicle .
release the black harness clip from the body .
release the lh rear parking brake caliper using toolbox . see parking brake caliper rear lh .
release the front harness clips around the lh frame rail area .
remove the bolt that attaches the lh rear rotor to the hub . note 10 mm . torque 5 nm . note early production vehicles may not be equipped with this bolt ,
install the brake rotor run out clamping plate onto the rotor . note this simulates the wheel being installed , thus preventing inaccurate measurements . note x5 nuts . 21 mm . torque 100 nm .
lower the vehicle to suitable height , and then remove the brake pedal depressor .
raise the vehicle partially . note set the vehicle to a comfortable working height .
prepare the new rear drive unit inverter and attach the esd strap to the new inverter housing
use an ipa wipe to clean the phase terminals of the rear drive unit motor and the new rear drive unit inverter , and allow at least one minute to dry .
apply a thin film of edf2 gearbox fluid to the walls of the gear case bores , and then install the front drive unit phase out cover . note inspect the condition of the cover and orings . if either are damaged , install a new cover .
inspect the condition of the gap pad on the new rear drive unit inverter pcb . replace the gap pad if it does not fulfill these criteria : new and undamaged condition . fully covers the discharge resistor array and no resistors are visible . clean and free of debris . evenly adhered to the inverter pcb .
release the clip that attaches the master cylinder brake lines to the 4 tube bundle .
verify the operation of the parking brake .
plug the chiller coolant outlet .
install the cowl screen panel . see panel cowl screen .
install the clip that attaches the driver knee airbag cover to the air duct .
install the bolts that attach the front drive unit phase out cover to the front drive unit . 14 nm
make sure that a new gasket is installed onto the new rear drive unit inverter .
release the clip that attaches the chillertobattery coolant hose to the bracket , and move the hose aside .
install the cover onto the outer brake bleed valve .
place an absorbent towel under the car computer coolant connections , as shown . figure 4 . lhd shown , rhd similar
install the lh and rh shock tower covers . see cover shock tower lh .
use the shackles to attach the drive unit sling tool to the old front drive unit .
apply a new front drive unit inverter phase out cover label .
carefully install the new rear drive unit inverter in and up between the rear subframe and rear drive unit . align the inverter to the 2 pins in the rear drive unit gearbox , and then install the inverter to the gearbox . caution take care not to damage the inverter circuit board when installing the inverter . note make sure that the phase terminals align during installation .
repeat steps 1 to 11 on the rh side of the vehicle .
apply a thin layer of teslaapproved brake caliper lubricant to the brake pad edges that contact the abutment flats . caution do not apply any lubricant to the back of the brake pads , and make sure not to contaminate the friction material .
remove the bolts that attach the abs modulator to the frame rail .
remove the brake line tube nuts from the junction block , and allow the fluid to drain .
bleed the brake caliper for the brake hose that was serviced . see brake fluid bleed one caliper .
install the front rh pinwheel cap , if removed . see cap wheel .
release the clip that connects the lh car computer coolant hose to the car computer coolant port , and then disconnect the hose . figure 5 . lhd shown , rhd similar
install the wiper arms . see wiper arms .
install the nuts that attach the brake lines to the booster . 16 nm figure 10 . lhd shown , rhd similar
use the gantry to raise the drive unit sling tool , and then move the front drive unit crate to under the old front drive unit .
attach the esd wrist strap to the old inverter , place the old inverter into the esd return box , and then remove the esd wrist strap from the old inverter . note replace the service plugs with the factory shipping plugs from the new inverter .
install and handtighten the bolts that attach the new rear drive unit inverter to the rear drive unit lh gearbox .
use the crowfoot extension to close the bleed valve when the pump stops , or when clean fluid without bubbles flows out of the caliper .
install any wheel caps or covers that were removed .
install the bolts that attach the lh rear brake dust shield to the knuckle . 8 nm
install the brake pads into the front lh caliper . caution do not mix brake pads , as they have worn specifically to their respective position within the caliper .
release the tabs that attach the abs modulator to the body , slide the abs modulator towards the 12v battery area , and then remove the abs modulator from the vehicle .
remove the oil drain from under the brake booster .
remove the nut that attaches the front junction block to the body .
release the clip that connects the rh car computer coolant hose to the car computer coolant port , and then disconnect the hose . figure 6 . lhd shown , rhd similar
click the play button next to `` test_brakedi_x_stiffnesstestpressureburnishedanddibrakeswitch '' , and then select run . if the test fails , refer to toolbox article # 52544 for additional information . if the test passes , disconnect the laptop from the vehicle .
clean the area around the brake fluid reservioir and cap , and then fill the reservoir .
carefully lower the old front drive unit into the crate .
tighten the bolts that attach the new rear drive unit inverter to the rear drive unit gearbox in the sequence shown . 12.5 nm
make sure that the reservoir does not go empty , or that the catch bottle does not overfill . caution if the reservoir goes empty , you must perform a complete brake system bleed . see brake fluid bleed / flush .
use a magnetic field viewing card to check the lh rear hub 's tone ring .
use the appropriate pin punch to install the antirattle spring and retaining pins into the front lh caliper .
loosen the nut that attach the abs modulator to the bracket , and then pry the abs modulator from the bracket .
bring the brake lines to the abs unit and master cylinder .
remove the junction block and lines from the vehicle . note move the lines forward , then to the lh side , and out through the lh wheel well .
make sure that the reservoir does not go empty , or that the catch bottle does not overfill . note if the reservoir goes empty , you must refill the reservoir and repeat the entire procedure from step 9 .
plug the car computer coolant ports .
install the underhood storage unit carpet . see carpet underhood storage .
remove the absorbent material from under the brake fluid reservoir .
install and handtighten the bolts that attach the old front drive unit to the front drive unit crate .
install the lh motor mount to the front drive unit , and then install and handtighten the bolts that attach the mount to the drive unit .
install and handtighten the bolts that attach the rear drive unit motor 3phase terminals to the new rear drive unit inverter 3phase terminals .
repeat step 13 through step 16 until clean fluid without bubbles flows out of the caliper .
apply approximately 1 gram of molykote m77 lubricant paste only to the hub mating face on the outboard side of the lh rear drive unit halfshaft . caution do not apply any lubricant to the halfshaft splines . if lubricant is mistakenly applied , wipe the splines clean with a shop towel . figure 2 . lubricate the area highlighted red
install the front lh caliper onto the front lh knuckle , install new bolts to attach the caliper to the knuckle , and then mark the bolt heads with a paint pen . 94 nm
rotate the front lh rotor 180 degrees , and then use the teslaapproved brake cleaner to clean any lubricant or debris from the rotor . repeat .
install the abs modulator into the bracket .
fasten the clips that attach the brake lines to the body .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the electrical harness ground terminals to the body in the front lh frame rail area .
install the hood latch cover . see cover hood latch .
connect the electrical harness connectors to the electromechanical brake booster connector .
lower the drive unit sling tool to release tension in the cables , and then remove the sling tool from the gantry .
torque the bolts in the sequence shown . 35 nm +55 deg
tighten the bolts that attach the rear drive unit motor 3phase terminals to the new rear drive unit inverter 3phase terminals . 11.5 nm caution if any bolts are dropped into the gearbox housing , they must be retrieved . note if installing a new bolt , tighten to 12.5 nm , back off 180 degrees , then torque to 5 nm +40 degrees .
remove the catch bottle and install the bleed valve cap .
position the lh rear drive unit halfshaft in the lh rear hub splines , and then install the new bolts that attach the hub to the knuckle . 78 nm figure 3 . halfshaft hidden for clarity
install the jounce hose bracket onto the front lh knuckle , and then install the bolt that attaches the bracket to the knuckle . 5 nm
turn the front wheel hubs to point fully left , and then repeat step 7 through 15 for the front rh caliper .
tighten the nuts that attach the abs modulator to the bracket . 8 nm
insert the brake lines into the master cylinder , and then use a crowfoot extension to install the brake line tube nuts into the master cylinder . 16 nm
release the clips that attach the main front harness to the body in the front lh frame rail area , and then move the lh side of the front harness aside for access .
connect the electrical harness to the brake fluid reservoir connector . figure 11 . lhd shown , rhd similar
open the shackles and remove the drive unit sling tool from the old front drive unit .
fasten the clips that attach the subframe electrical harness to the front drive unit inverter .
verify that the rear drive unit hv connector is fully seated , and compare both sides of the connector that it is properly secured in place . note an improperly seated connector might lead to connector damage and rear drive unit problems later on .
lightly lubricate the rear drive unit gearbox phase out cover bores with edf2 fluid , and if there is a new phase out cover , lightly lubricate the orings of the cover .
repeat step 12 through step 18 for the inner bleed valve , and again for the outer bleed valve .
handtighten a new rear drive unit halfshaft nut on the lh halfshaft .
point the front wheel hubs to center .
remove the tapes that cover the orifices of the new abs modulator
fasten the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the brake line at the master cylinder .
remove the brake line from the vehicle . note move the line forward , then to the lh side , and out through the lh wheel well .
repeat step 12 through step 18 for the inner bleed valve , and again for the outer bleed valve .
install the hvac plenum inner duct . see duct hvac plenum inner .
close the crate and prepare for shipment to mrb .
connect the subframe electrical harness to the front drive unit inverter logic connector , raise the handle upward , and then fasten the locking tab .
install the bolt that attaches the hv harness bracket to the inverter . 6 nm
install the phase out cover into the rear drive unit gearbox , and then install the bolts that attach the cover to the gearbox . 14 nm
raise the vehicle and remove the front lh wheel . see wheel .
tighten the bleed valves . 18.5 nm
enable service mode .
install the lh rear brake rotor , but do not perform any road tests . see brake rotor rear lh .
turn the front wheel hubs to point fully left , and then repeat step 7 through 17 for the front rh caliper .
use a brush and tesla–approved brake cleaner to clean dirt and debris from the outside of the rear lh caliper connector and harness .
position the abs modulator into the vehicle for installation . align the bracket into the body , and then attach the tabs .
insert the brake lines into the abs unit , and then use a crowfoot extension to install the brake line tube nuts into the abs unit . 16 nm
position the oil drain under the front rh brake hose .
place an oil drain container under the abs modulator area .
install the hvac plenum outer duct . see duct hvac plenum outer .
align the splines of the rh halfshaft with those of the differential in the front drive unit and carefully insert the halfshaft into the drive unit with a clockwisecounterclockwise rocking motion . caution do not force the insertion of the halfshaft . if the halfshaft seems difficult to insert , back out , rotate the halfshaft about 10 to 20 degrees , and try again .
install the front drive unit inverter inlet hose to the front drive unit , and then fasten the clips that attach the hose to the drive unit .
connect the rear drive unit inlet hose to the inverter coolant inlet , and then fasten the clip . caution perform a pushpull test to verify that the hose is fully seated .
install a new phase out cover label .
remove the bolt that attaches the lh front brake hose bracket to the lh front knuckle . 5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench 4 in extension
remove the lh and rh rear wheels . see wheel .
remove the brake pad retaining pins that attach the antirattle spring from the lh front brake caliper .
go to step 28 .
select brake burnishing .
release the red retaining tab and disconnect the electrical harness from the rear lh caliper connector .
move the abs modulator into position within the vehicle for installation .
fasten the clip that attaches the brake lines to the abs unit .
refill the reservoir to max , and properly dispose of the catch bottle contents .
install the wiper motor . see wiper module .
fold the rh knuckle inward and continue to install the rh front halfshaft into the front drive unit until a click is heard when the halfshaft fully engages the circlip inside the differential . caution do not force the insertion of the halfshaft . make sure that the halfshaft enters the drive unit straight on . if the halfshaft seems difficult to insert , back out , rotate the halfshaft about 10 to 20 degrees , align the halfshaft straight on , and try again . note pull back on the halfshaft where it enters the front drive unit , to verify that it is secure in the drive unit .
connect the front drive unit inverter inlet hose to the front drive unit inverter inlet , fasten the clip , and then perform a pushpullpush check of the fitting .
fasten the clip that attaches the rear drive unit inlet hose to the hv harness bracket .
remove the esd wrist strap from the new inverter , attach it to the old inverter , and prepare the old inverter for shipment to mrb .
set the vehicle 's front wheels straight and the steering wheel centered .
remove the steering wheel . see steering wheel .
open both front doors and lower the windows .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the lh front caliper to the lh front knuckle , remove the caliper from the knuckle , and allow the caliper to hang from an shook . 94 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : external torx e18 ratchet/torque wrench note if needed , use the caliper spreader tool to push the caliper pistons to the fully open position .
remove the bolts that attach the lh rear brake caliper to the lh rear brake caliper bracket . 26.5 nm
remove the front brake pads from the lh front brake caliper .
apply the brake pedal depressor . note verify brake pedal is fully pressed to avoid wheels from spinning .
remove the caliper bleed valve cap and attach the catch bottle to the valve . note hang the bottle by the wire hook , not by the hose .
repeat steps 1 to 7 on the rh side of the vehicle .
move the rear lh caliper outward to partially compress the caliper piston .
install the bolts that attach the abs modulator to the lh frame rail . 10 nm
move the lh front electrical harness back to the lh front shock tower , and then install the new bolts to attach the electrical harness ground straps to the shock tower . 8 nm
remove the brake line from the vehicle . note move the line forward , then to the rh side , and out through the subframe .
repeat step 12 through step 21 for the front rh brake caliper .
align the splines of the lh halfshaft with those of the differential in the front drive unit and carefully insert the halfshaft into the drive unit with a clockwisecounterclockwise rocking motion . caution do not force the insertion of the halfshaft . if the halfshaft seems difficult to insert , back out , rotate the halfshaft about 10 to 20 degrees , and try again .
install the front drive unit inverter to heat exchanger hose to the front drive unit , and then fasten the clips that attach the hose to the drive uint . figure 9 . heat pump model 3 figure 10 . model 3
connect the electrical harness to the inverter low voltage connector .
install the steering wheel . see steering wheel .
from the touchscreen , move the steering column to the lowest and most outward position .
remove the bolt that attaches the brake rotor to the hub , and then remove the brake rotor from the hub . 5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench 2 in extension
using a flat head screwdriver , compress the brake piston by carefully pushing the caliper away from the brake rotor .
use a brake caliper shook to hang the lh rear brake caliper on the body .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the lh front brake caliper to the lh front knuckle .
use the caliper spreader kit or similar tool to gently push the piston back into the caliper .
lower the vehicle , and then shift the vehicle into park .
remove the bolts that attach the rear lh caliper to the rear lh carrier , remove the caliper from the carrier , and then hang the caliper from an shook . caution make sure not to strain or kink the brake jounce hose . figure 6 . remove bolts figure 7 . hang caliper
fasten the clip that attaches the master cylinder brake lines to the bracket .
fasten the clips that attach the lh front electrical harness to the lh front frame rail .
remove the oil drain .
bleed the rear rh brake caliper next .
fold the lh knuckle inward and continue to install the lh front halfshaft into the front drive unit until a click is heard when the halfshaft fully engages the circlip inside the differential . caution do not force the insertion of the halfshaft . make sure that the halfshaft enters the drive unit straight on . if the halfshaft seems difficult to insert , back out , rotate the halfshaft about 10 to 20 degrees , align the halfshaft straight on , and try again . note pull back on the halfshaft where it enters the front drive unit , to verify that it is secure in the drive unit .
connect the front drive unit inverter to heat exchanger hose to the front drive unit heat exchanger , fasten the clip , and then perform a pushpullpush check of the fitting . figure 11 . heat pump model 3 figure 12 . model 3
install the rear drive unit lh mount in , over , and down between the rear subframe and the body .
set the steering wheel straight ahead .
replace patchbolts
remove the rubber cap that covers the upper lh rear caliper to caliper bracket bolt .
remove the brake pads from the lh rear brake caliper bracket .
use a brake caliper shook to hang the lh front caliper on the body .
clean the caliper pins and antirattle spring with soapy water and a hand brush .
open the bleed valve and watch the fluid as it flows out of the caliper .
tighten lh and rh rear wheel lug nuts . see wheel .
use the caliper spreader to compress the piston into the rear lh caliper .
install the master cylinder brake lines to the 4 tube bundle clip .
connect the electrical harness to the abs unit connector .
separate the front lh and front rh brake lines from the new bundle .
perform a test drive .
install the lh and rh wiper arms . see wiper arms .
connect the subframe electrical harness to the oil pump connector , and then press the red locking tab into the connector .
connect the front drive unit inverter to heat exchanger hose to the front drive unit inverter outlet , fasten the clip , and then perform a pushpullpush check of the fitting . figure 13 . heat pump model 3 figure 14 . model 3
install the rear drive unit lh mount to the rear drive unit , and then install and handtighten the bolts that attach the mount to the drive unit .
position the oil drain under the lh front brake caliper area .
remove the front harness clip from the lh frame rail area .
move the rh front seat backward and recline the seatback .
mark the fastener with a paint pen after torquing .
remove the upper bolt that attaches the lh rear brake caliper to the lh rear caliper bracket .
remove the caliper abutment clips from the lh rear brake caliper bracket .
use a caliper spreader kit or similar tool to gently spread the brake pads apart .
repeat step 1 through step 5 for the rh front brake caliper .
remove the bolt that attaches the lh front rotor to the knuckle . note 10 mm . torque 5 nm .
tighten the lh and rh rear drive unit halfshaft nuts . 300 nm
remove the cap from over the upper bolt that attaches the rear lh caliper to the rear lh carrier , and then remove the upper bolt .
remove the brake pads from the rear lh carrier . caution keep the inboard pad and the outboard pad separate and organized .
install the master cylinder primary pipe nut to the abs modulator . 16 nm
slide the lh side of the shock tower brace backward to its mounting position , and then install the bolts that attach the shock tower brace to the body . 67 nm 62 nm 67 nm
install the rh front brake line into the vehicle . note move the rh front brake line in through the subframe from the rh side , then to the lh side , and then backward .
fasten the clip that attaches the subframe electrical harness to the front drive unit motor . figure 11 . heat pump model 3 figure 12 . model 3
install the front subframe . see subframe assembly front .
tighten the bolts that attach the rear drive unit lh mount to the rear drive unit in the sequence shown . 35 nm +55 deg
disconnect the electrical connector from the lh rear brake caliper .
remove the lh front jounce hose . see brake hose flexible front lh .
in toolbox , click actions , type `` sccm '' in the search field , then click on `` pingtp_ sccm , '' and then select run .
disconnect the ground connector from the lh frame rail area .
remove the lower bolt that attaches the lh rear brake caliper to the lh rear caliper bracket .
repeat step 1 through step 10 for the rh rear brake pad removal .
gently use a plastic trim tool to remove the brake pads from the lh front brake caliper .
apply an even layer of silaramic lubricant to the brake caliper slides .
remove the lower bolt that attaches the rear lh caliper to the rear lh carrier , remove the caliper from the carrier , and then hang the caliper from an shook . caution make sure not to strain or kink the brake jounce hose .
remove and discard the abutment springs/clips from the rear lh carrier .
install the master cylinder secondary pipe nut to the abs modulator . 16 nm
install the battery bracket . see bracket 12v battery .
insert the brake line into the brake hose at the jounce hose bracket , and then use a crowfoot extension to install the brake line tube nut into the brake hose . 23 nm
fasten the clips that attach the subframe electrical harness to the inverter .
install the front fascia . see fascia front .
install the lh mount bolt that attaches the rear drive unit lh mount to the rear subframe . 80 nm note use a pry bar between the block and rear drive unit to position the mount so that the bolt can be installed .
remove the bolt that attaches the electrical harness bracket to the lh rear brake caliper .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the lh front brake caliper to the lh front knuckle , and then remove the caliper from the vehicle .
remove the driver airbag . see airbag driver .
move the lh side of the front harness aside for access .
remove the clips that attach the cabin intake upper duct assembly .
use a brake caliper shook to hang the lh rear caliper on the body .
use needlenose pliers to ensure that the slots in the rear brake caliper piston face are at the 12 o'clock and 6 o'clock positions .
repeat step 2 through step 7 to remove the rh front brake pads .
install the lh front brake pads to the lh front brake caliper .
repeat step 25 through step 28 until clean fluid without bubbles flows out of the caliper .
remove the brake pads from the rear lh caliper and rear lh carrier . caution keep the inboard pad and the outboard pad separate and organized .
use the brush and tesla–approved brake cleaner to clean the abutment flats , the piston faces , the inner surfaces of the rear lh caliper and rear lh carrier , and the brake pad edges and surfaces that contact the caliper or carrier caution make sure not to contaminate the friction material . figure 8 . abutment flats , model x shown , model 3/y similar
install the lh front brake pipe nut to the abs modulator . 16 nm
install the lh front brake line into the vehicle . note move the lh front brake line in through the lh wheel well , then to the rh side , and then backward .
remove the clip that attaches the master cylinder brake lines to the 4tube bundle .
remove the block from between the rear drive unit and the subframe fixture .
position the oil drain under the lh rear brake caliper area .
install the lh front brake caliper onto the lh front knuckle , and then install new bolts to attach the caliper to the knuckle . 94 nm
disconnect the steering wheel electrical wiring harness connector .
disconnect the connector from the abs unit .
remove the brake pad from the lh rear brake caliper .
install the caliper abutment clips .
brush the lh front brake caliper and anti rattle springs with soapy water .
install the brake pad retaining pins that attach the antirattle spring .
install the brake rotor run out flex bar onto the front tie rod nut and setup for reading .
remove the abutment springs/clips from the rear lh carrier .
install new abutment springs/clips into the rear lh carrier . note the rear caliper abutment springs/clips are tefloncoated . additional lubrication on the springs/clips or rear brake pad ends is not necessary .
install the rh rear brake pipe nut to the abs modulator . 16 nm
make sure that the reservoir does not go empty , or that the catch bottle does not overfill . note if the reservoir goes empty , you must refill the reservoir and repeat the entire procedure from step 9
release the master cylinder brake lines from the clip at the rear of the abs modulator bracket .
model 3 connect the electrical harness to the lv logic connectors at the steering gear , and then push the grey tabs to lock the connectors .
remove the plugs from the fittings , immediately connect the rear drive unit inverter to heat exchanger hose to the rear drive unit inverter outlet , fasten the clip , and then perform a pushpullpush check of the fitting .
remove the lh rear jounce hose . see brake hose flexible rear lh .
install a new lh front jounce hose . see brake hose flexible front lh .
remove and discard the bolt that attaches the steering wheel to the steering column . 80 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm hex 3/8 in std ratchet 3/8 in flex head torque wrench 3 in extension
remove the bolt that attaches the intermediate shaft to the steering rack assembly , and then slide the intermediate shaft upwards to remove it from the steering rack . figure 1 . lhd shown , rhd similar
remove the brake pad from the lh rear brake caliper bracket .
apply an even layer of silaramic lubricant to the abutment clips .
apply a thin layer of copper grease to the left and right side edges of the lh front brake pads . caution do not apply any grease to the back side of the brake pad .
install the lh front wheel . see wheel .
measure 10 mm inward from the front rotor end and align digital indicator . press indicator rod and zero measurement . note make sure the indicator rod is pressed to allow travel in both directions and does not bottom out .
tighten the bleed valve as follows : 14 nm 10 nm
use the brush and tesla–approved brake cleaner to clean the abutment flats , the piston faces , the inner surfaces of the rear lh caliper and rear lh carrier , the antirattle springs , the abutment springs/clips , and the brake pad edges and surfaces that contact the caliper or carrier . caution make sure not to contaminate the friction material . figure 6 . abutment flats figure 7 . antirattle springs
install the brake pads into the rear lh carrier . caution do not mix brake pads , as they have worn specifically to their respective position within the carrier .
install the lh rear brake pipe nut to the abs modulator . 16 nm
install the front junction block and lines into the vehicle . note move the lines in through the lh wheel well , then to the rh side , and then backward .
remove the oil drain container from beneath the vehicle .
connect the electrical harness to the steering gear power connectors , and then slide the red tab to lock the connectors .
fasten the clip that attaches the rear drive unit inverter to heat exchanger hose to the rear drive unit lh mount .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the lh rear caliper bracket to the knuckle , and then remove the caliper from the vehicle .
remove the oil drain from underneath the vehicle .
remove the steering wheel from the steering column .
remove the nut that attaches the rh front brake line tube to the abs unit .
remove the lh and rh mid apillar trim . see trim apillar middle lh .
brush the lh rear brake caliper and lh rear brake caliper bracket anti rattle springs with soapy water .
install the brake pads on the lh rear brake caliper bracket . tip : during installation , press the brake pads toward the brake rotor . note use the caliper spreader tool to push the caliper piston back into the caliper , if more room is needed .
install the lh front brake pads on the lh front brake caliper . tip : push the pads toward the anti rattle springs , and then slide the pads onto the fixed pins .
repeat step 1 through step 4 for the rh front brake caliper .
mark the top center of the front rotor to identify the starting point .
install the abutment springs/clips into the rear lh carrier .
install the rear lh caliper onto the rear lh carrier , and then install the bolts that attach the caliper to the carrier . 26 nm note if the bolt heads have become deformed , replace the bolts .
install the rh front brake pipe nut to the abs modulator . 16 nm
install the front junction block to the body , and then install the nut that attaches the junction block to the body . 7 nm
install the front drive unit inverter to heat exchanger hose to the front drive unit , and then fasten the clips that attach the hose to the drive uint . figure 13 . heat pump model 3 figure 14 . model 3
model 3 connect the electrical harness to the front subframe electrical harness .
fasten the clip that attaches the rear drive unit ground strap to the rear subframe .
install the brake rotor run out flex bar onto the rear toe link bolt and setup for reading .
if installed , remove the brake pads from the rear brake caliper .
remove the nut that that attaches the lh rear brake line tube to the abs unit .
remove the rh footwell cover . see cover footwell driver .
install the brake pad on the lh rear brake caliper bracket . tip : during installation , press the brake pad away from the brake rotor .
install the bolts that attach the lh rear brake caliper to the lh rear brake caliper bracket . 26.5 nm
position the lh front brake caliper on the lh front knuckle , and then install new bolts that attach the caliper to the knuckle . 94 nm
pump the brake pedal 35 times to seat the pads against the brake rotor until the brake pedal feels firm .
slowly rotate the front rotor 1 full revolution . note record the highest positive and lowest negative values as shown on the digital indicator as you complete the rotation . note the total runout is the difference between the highest positive and lowest negative values and must not exceed 0.050 mm . if the total runout exceeds 0.050 mm , the brake rotor must be replaced due to excessive runout .
remove the pressure cap from the reservoir and install the breather cap .
install the brake pads into the rear lh caliper and rear lh carrier . caution do not mix brake pads , as they have worn specifically to their respective position within the caliper and carrier .
connect the electrical harness to the rear lh caliper connector , fasten the red retaining tab , and then perform a pushpullpush check of the connection .
remove the oil pan from underneath the vehicle .
insert the lh sill brake lines into the front junction block , and then use a crowfoot extension to install the brake line tube nuts into the junction block . 23 nm
perform a road test using a series of panic stops to make sure there is proper pedal feel and brake performance .
connect the front drive unit inverter to heat exchanger hose to the front drive unit heat exchanger , fasten the clip , and then perform a pushpullpush check of the fitting . figure 15 . heat pump model 3 figure 16 . model 3
slide the intermediate shaft down onto the steering gear , and then install the bolt that attaches the intermediate shaft to the steering gear . 18 nm figure 15 . heat pump model 3 figure 16 . model 3
tilt the subframe fixture backward to its original position .
measure 15 mm inward from the rear rotor end and align digital indicator . press the indicator rod and zero measurement . note make sure the indicator rod is pressed to allow travel in both directions and does not bottom out .
perform the bleed procedure for the lh front brake caliper . see brake fluid bleed one caliper .
remove the nut that attaches the rh rear brake line tube to the abs unit .
remove the clip that attaches the rh knee airbag cover to the air duct , and then remove the knee airbag cover .
install the brake pad on the lh rear brake caliper . note mate the brake pad spring clips to the lh rear caliper cutouts .
measure 25 mm inward from the front rotor end and align digital indicator . press indicator rod and zero measurement . note make sure indicator rod is pressed to allow travel in both directions and does not bottom out .
press the brake pedal several times to verify proper feel and action .
install the rear lh caliper onto the rear lh carrier , install the lower bolt that attaches the caliper to the carrier , and then mark the bolt head with a paint pen . 90 nm
rotate the rear lh rotor 180 degrees , and then use the tesla–approved brake cleaner to clean any debris from the rotor . repeat .
install the clips that attach the main front harness to the lh frame rail area .
fasten the clips that attach the thermal beam hose to the body .
place absorbent towels under the brake fluid reservoir , and then remove as much fluid from the reservoir as possible .. figure 7 . lhd shown , rhd similar
connect the front drive unit inverter to heat exchanger hose to the front drive unit inverter outlet , fasten the clip , and then perform a pushpullpush check of the fitting . figure 17 . heat pump model 3 figure 18 . model 3
carefully raise the subframe and rear drive unit assembly until they are up against the body . caution be mindful of the suspension and brake components that are still attached to both the subframe and the body .
mark the top center of the rear rotor to identify the starting point .
install the brake pads into the rear brake caliper .
remove the nut that attaches the lh front brake line tube to the abs unit .
remove the rh footwell vent duct . see duct footwell rh .
position the lh rear caliper on the lh rear caliper bracket .
repeat step 1 through step 5 for the rh rear brake pad installation .
in toolbox , type `` fluidlevel '' into the search field and click actions .
install the upper bolt that attaches the rear lh caliper to the rear lh carrier , mark the bolt head with a paint pen , and then install the cap over the bolt . 47.5 nm
repeat step 18 through 30 for the rear rh caliper .
connect the electrical connector to the abs modulator .
fasten the clips that attach the brake lines to the front body .
repeat step 24 through step 32 for the rear lh brake caliper .
loosen the nuts that attach the brake lines to the booster , and then slide the nuts back on the brake lines . figure 8 . lhd shown , rhd similar
perform a cooling system vacuum refill . see cooling system .
install and handtighten a new rh rear subframe bolt to attach the rear subframe to the body .
slowly rotate the rear rotor 1 full revolution . note record the highest positive and lowest negative values as shown on the digital indicator as you complete the rotation . note the total runout is the difference between the highest positive and lowest negative values and must not exceed 0.050 mm . if the total runout exceeds 0.050 mm , the brake rotor must be replaced due to excessive runout .
install the lh rear brake caliper onto the lh rear knuckle , and then install new bolts to attach the caliper to the knuckle . 83 nm
remove the nut that attaches the master cylinder secondary pipe to the abs unit .
remove the main instrument panel decor trim . see decor trim instrument panel main .
install the lower bolt that attaches the lh rear caliper to the lh rear caliper bracket . 90 nm
apply the parking brake by touching the park button on the touchscreen .
repeat step 1 through step 6 to install the rh front brake pads .
measure 40 mm inward from the front rotor end and align digital indicator . press indicator rod and zero measurement . note make sure indicator rod is pressed to allow travel in both directions and does not bottom out .
run the testselfvcfront_x_brakefluidlevel test .
if the vehicle already had all four wheels removed for another service procedure , return to that procedure . otherwise , continue to the next step of this procedure .
install the black and white clips that attach the main front harness to the body .
remove the front and rear wheels . see wheel .
connect lv power . see 12v/lv power .
install and handtighten a new lh rear subframe bolt to attach the rear subframe to the body .
measure 30 mm inward from the rear rotor end and align digital indicator . press the indicator rod and zero measurement . note make sure the indicator rod is pressed to allow travel in both directions and does not bottom out .
install a new lh rear jounce hose . see brake hose flexible rear lh .
remove the nut that attaches the master cylinder primary pipe to the abs unit .
install the upper bolt that attaches the lh rear caliper to the lh rear caliper bracket . 47.5 nm
pump the brake pedal to seat the pads against the brake rotor until the brake pedal feels firm .
in toolbox , type `` stiffness '' into the search field and click actions .
install all four wheels , and then lower the vehicle so that the wheels just contact the floor but do not support the weight of the vehicle .
install the bolts that attach g098 and g099 to the body . 10 nm
remove the lh and rh front wheel arch liners . see wheel arch liner front lh .
remove the steering wheel lock from the steering wheel .
install the rh shear plate to the rear subframe , and then install a new large bolt to attach the rh shear plate and rear subframe to the body .
remove the bracket that attaches the master cylinder brake lines and the 4tube bundle .
remove the steering column control module . see module steering column control .
install the rubber cap that covers the upper lh rear caliper to caliper bracket bolt .
check the brake fluid level and top off the brake fluid reservoir , if necessary .
remove the brake rotor run out flex bar from the front tie rod nut .
run the ibst stiffness test burnished pressure test . caution do not press the brake pedal while this test is running .
repeat step 20 through 33 for the rear rh caliper .
press the button on the end of the steering column rh stalk to put the vehicle into park , activate the electronic parking brake , and deactivate transport mode .
install the 12 battery bracket . see bracket 12v battery .
install the front lh and rh wheels . see wheel .
connect the laptop with toolbox 3 .
install and handtighten the small bolts that attach the rh shear plate to the hv battery .
measure 45 mm inward from the rear rotor end and align digital indicator . press the indicator rod and zero measurement . note make sure the indicator rod is pressed to allow travel in both directions and does not bottom out .
set the steering wheel straight ahead and lock it with a steering wheel holder .
connect the electrical connector to the lh rear brake caliper .
open the lh front door , and fully lower all windows .
release the master cylinder brake lines from the clip at the rear of the abs unit bracket .
remove the screws that attach the ip carrier to the cross car beam on the lower rh side
repeat steps 4 to 6 for the rh rear brake pads .
lower the vehicle to suitable height and install the brake pedal depressor .
if the pressure_p100 value in the test results is less than 55 bar , repeat the bleed procedure from step 4 .
lower the vehicle completely .
install the 12v auxiliary battery , but do not connect the negative battery terminal at this time . see 12v/lv battery .
run the ibst stiffness test burnished pressure test .
install the lh shear plate to the rear subframe , and then install a new large bolt to attach the lh shear plate and rear subframe to the body .
install the lh rear brake caliper electrical harness clips . 5 nm
center the steering wheel , and make sure that the front wheels are pointing straight .
remove the bolts that attach the the abs unit to the frame rail .
release the clips that attach the lower gap hider to the ip sub assembly , and then slide it downwards to remove the gap hider from the vehicle .
install the lh and rh rear wheels . see wheel .
remove the brake rotor runout clamping plate from the front rotor .
install the wheel and lower the vehicle . see wheel .
final torque all wheel lugnuts . 175 nm
install the 12v auxiliary battery . see 12v/lv battery .
if the pressure_p100 value in the test results is less than 55 bar , repeat the bleed procedure from step 5 .
install and handtighten the small bolts that attach the lh shear plate to the hv battery .
remove both rear wheels . see wheel .
remove the brake rotor run out flex bar from the rear toe link bolt .
use a paint pen to apply a witness mark to the tie rod and jamb nut so that the two can be realigned later on during the lh tie rod end installation .
remove the outer bolts that attach the steering rack to the front subframe .
rcarefully remove the abs unit with the bracket from the vehicle . note slide the abs unit towards the 12v battery area to remove .
apply tape to the instrument panel area around the steering column to protect it from damaging .
lower the vehicle , and then shift the vehicle into park .
install the bolt that attaches the front rotor to the knuckle . note 10 mm . torque 5 nm .
repeatedly press the brake pedal until firm .
pump the brake pedal until firm .
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the lh frame rail .
install all four wheels and lower the vehicle . see wheel .
remove the chiller to car computer and hv battery supply manifold hose . see hose chiller to car computer and hv battery supply manifold .
use a pry bar to shimmy the rear subframe with respect to the body , so that the subframe mounting bolts are centered in the tracings , and the witness marks align where the subframe contacts the body .
remove the rear suspension cover . see cover rear suspension lh .
use a paint pen to apply a witness mark to the cam bolt lobe and rear subframe so that the two can be realigned later on during the lh rear toe link installation .
disconnect the steering wheel wiring harness electrical connector .
lower vehicle to suitable height and install the brake pedal depressor .
loosen the jamb nut at the lh tie rod end . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 21 mm 12pt combination wrench
open all doors and fully lower all windows .
remove the inner bolts that attach the steering rack to the front subframe .
remove any wheel chocks , and then shift the vehicle into park .
put absorbent material underneath the brake booster and reservoir area , and then remove as much brake fluit as possible from the reservoir .
disconnect the instrument panel harness connector from the steering column .
in areas where road salt is used , rinse the suspension components at each wheel with clean water .
install the cabin intake duct . see duct cabin intake .
install the front hv battery skid plate . see skid plate hv battery front .
release the ptc hv electrical connector from the bracket , and then disconnect the connector .
slide the intermediate shaft down onto the steering gear , and then install the bolt that attaches the intermediate shaft to the steering gear . 18 nm figure 19 . heat pump model 3 figure 20 . model 3
tighten the rh rear subframe bolt that attaches the rear subframe to the body , and then mark the bolt after tightenting . 165 nm
remove the lh rear suspension cover . see cover rear suspension lh .
install a spring compressor onto the lh rear suspension spring : warning springs in a compressed state are under large amounts of energy . refer to the tool profile for the spring compressor kit prior to performing this step for additional warnings and cautions . place the top plate onto the coils near the top of the spring . make sure the top plate sits flush with the coil and will not move out of place . hold the bottom plate under the rear lower control arm so that the hole in the suspension and the hole in the bottom plate are aligned . insert the compression rod upwards through the bottom plate and the hole in the suspension . continue pushing the compression rod upwards through the spring until the top goes through the cutouts in the top plate . note the top of the compression rod has the notches and the bottom of the compresson rod has the fastener head . twist the compression rod so that the tabs on the top of the compression rod lock into the notches in the top plate . maneuver the bottom plate so that the plate aligns with the spring cup protrusion on the lower control arm . carefully compress the spring by tightening the fastener head on the bottom of the compression rod just until the spring becomes unseated from the body . warning while compressing the spring , continuously check to make sure the spring compressor tool remains in place .
remove the cam bolt , the cam washer , and discard the nut that attach the rear toe link to the knuckle .
remove the bolts that attach the lh and rh rear suspension covers , and then remove the covers from the vehicle . 6 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension
disconnect the lh steering wheel switch electrical connector . repeat this step for the rh steering wheel switch electrical connector . figure 1 . lh shown , rh similar
remove the brake rotor runout clamping plate from the rear rotor .
remove and discard the nut that attaches the tie rod to the knuckle . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 22 mm socket 10 mm 12pt combination wrench
remove the steering rack from the front subframe . figure 1 . lhd shown , rhd similar
disconnect the nuts that attach the front and rear brake lines to the brake booster .
remove the nuts that attach the steering column to the cross car beam `` . figure 2 . lhd shown , rhd similar
remove the brake pedal depressor .
perform a cautious short drive comprised of multiple firm brake pedal applications to dry wet brake pads and rotors , and to verify braking performance .
install lh and rh front wheel arch liners . see wheel arch liner front lh .
perform a road test using a series of aggressive stops to make sure there is proper pedal feel and brake performance .
disconnect the a/c compressor electrical connector from the hv harness , and then release the clips that attach the hv harness to the body in the lower bulkhead area .
tighten the lh rear subframe bolt that attaches the rear subframe to the body , and then mark the bolt after tightenting . 165 nm
remove the bolt that attaches the intermediate shaft to the steering rack assembly , and then slide the intermediate shaft fully upwards .
remove the bolt that attaches the brake rotor to the hub . note use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension
remove the bolts that attach the front of the rear diffuser to the body .
release clips that attach the horn to the steering wheel assembly . note pull the horn assembly straight out to release it .
install the bolt that attaches the rear rotor to the hub . note 10 mm . torque 5 nm . note early production vehicles may not be equipped with this bolt .
remove the lh tie rod end from the knuckle using a rubber hammer .
move the driver seat rearward .
redeploy the firmware . see firmware redeploy .
perform the bleed procedure for the lh rear brake caliper . see brake fluid bleed one caliper .
raise the vehicle to a comfortable working height .
remove the steering column assembly from the vehicle : slowly pull the assembly inwards , tilting the upper portion of the steering column towards the roof of the vehicle to clear it from the instrument panel . once the motor contacts the cross beam , slightly pull on the lower ip area below the assembly to allow the motor to clear the cross beam . rotate the assembly to the right to clear the bottom left portion of the motor , and then remove the assembly from the vehicle .
release the clips that attach the 12v harness to the body .
tighten large bolt that attaches the lh shear plate and rear subframe to the body , and then mark the bolt after tightenting . 130 nm
move the front seats fully rearward .
remove the bolts that attach the front part of the rear fascia diffuser to the vehicle . tip : this step will help you access the suspension during the next steps .
install the hub jack adapter onto the lh rear hub and handtighten the lug nuts .
remove and discard the bolt and nut that attach the rear toe link to the rear subframe , and then remove the rear toe link from the vehicle .
position the transmission jack to support the front beam of the rear subframe .
remove the bolts that attach the steering wheel surround to the steering wheel . 5.4 nm tip : pry the lower portion of the bright surround first . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : t20 socket 4 in extension
remove the tie rod from the steering linkage by turning the tie rod counterclockwise . note record the number of rotations for separation of the tie rod from the steering linkage .
refill the system with coolant . see cooling system .
position a coolant drain container underneath the lh front side of the hv battery .
after installation is complete , connect a laptop with toolbox 3 to the vehicle .
redeploy the vehicle firmware . see firmware redeploy .
remove the clips that attach the brake lines to the body .
inspect the coolant level and top up if necessary . see cooling system .
tighten large bolt that attaches the rh shear plate and rear subframe to the body , and then mark the bolt after tightenting . 130 nm
on the vehicle touchscreen , touch controls > steering column , and then use the steering wheel left scroll wheel to move the steering wheel fully down and fully out .
install a spring compressor onto the lh rear suspension spring . line up the hooks per image and verify that the spindle goes through the body opening when the suspension is compressed .
use an underhoist stand to support the hub jack adapter .
install the lh rear toe link into the vehicle , and then install and hand tighten the cam bolt , the cam washer , boltt and new nuts that attach the rear toe link to the subframe and to the knuckle .
release the fir tree clips that attach the coolant hoses to the lh and rh shear plates .
disconnect the lower connection from the steering wheel controller , and then remove the steering wheel horn assembly from the steering wheel .
press and hold the park button to release the epb service mode . note remove wheel chocks , if necessary .
install the tie rod end to the steering linkage by turning the tie rod end clockwise using the exact number of turns recorded during removal .
using the steering wheel holder , lock the steering wheel into position . caution protect the seat from damage .
move the vehicle to a four wheel alignment bench and torque all suspension bolts to the specified value .
release the clips that attach the steering column upper shroud to the lower shroud , and then pull the upper shroud up .
remove the clip that attaches the hv battery front manifold hose to the body .
bleed the entire brake system . see brake fluid bleed / flush .
remove the brake line bundle from the vehicle . note shift the bundle towards the rh front , then remove the brake lines from the steering column area and out between the front subframe cavity .
manually engage the hood latch . note if the hood is open , or if the hood latch is not manually engaged , the vehicle speed will be limited and the resolver learn routine will fail .
tighten the small bolts that attach the rh shear plate to the hv battery . 35 nm
use the thinwalled strut removal socket special tool to remove the nuts that attach the lh spring and damper assembly to the lh front upper control arm mount .
position the support stand underneath the lh lower rear control arm .
remove the bolts that attach the lh rear damper to the body at the top mount . note use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm socket 3 in extension
remove the bolts that attach the lh and rh shear plates to the hv battery , remove the shear plates , and then reinstall the long bolts directly into the rear subframe . 30 nm 128 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket 21 mm socket 3 in extension 6 in extension
disconnect the steering wheel horn assembly harness electrical connectors .
install the new nut that attaches the tie rod end to the knuckle . 180 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 22 mm socket 10 mm 12pt combination wrench
place ballast bags onto the front seats , check the vehicle wheel alignment , and adjust if necessary . see four wheel alignment check .
remove the upper screws that attach the steering column lower shroud to the steering column . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t20 socket ¼ in std ratchet 2 in extension wiha torquevarios 0.8 nm 2.0 nm screwdriver torx t20 bit , 70 mm wiha ¼ in bit holder adapter wiha torque setter
disconnect the chiller to battery hose from the hv battery front manifold hose .
using toolbox , type `` stifness '' in the search field , click on `` test_brake_x_stiffnesstestpressureburnished '' , and then select `` run '' . note do not press the brake pedal during the test . note click on the drop down menu , then click on `` pressure p100 '' to see the result of the test . if the result reads less than 55 bar , repeat the bleed procedure and brake stiffness test .
after connecting 12v power , connect a laptop with toolbox 3 to the vehicle .
touch the brake pedal to ensure the drive rails are on , and then click next .
tighten the small bolts that attach the lh shear plate to the hv battery . 35 nm
remove and discard the bolt that attaches the front lh abs wheel speed sensor to the knuckle , and then separate the sensor from the knuckle .
loosen the nut that attaches the lh lower rear control arm to the subframe .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear damper to the lower aft link . note use of the following tool is recommended : 21 mm socket 21 mm wrench breaker bar
remove the transmission jack out from under the front beam of the rear subframe .
release the clip that attaches the steering wheel harness to the horn assembly .
use the witness marks to align the tie rod to the jamb nut and tighten the nut to secure the tie rod end in position . 80 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 21 mm 12pt combination wrench
remove the lower screw that attaches the steering column lower shroud to the steering column , and then remove the lower shroud from the vehicle . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t20 socket ¼ in std ratchet 2 in extension wiha torquevarios 0.8 nm 2.0 nm screwdriver torx t20 bit , 70 mm wiha ¼ in bit holder adapter wiha torque setter
plug the male side of the manifold hose .
from the resover learn action list , click front drive unit resolver error learning , click run , and follow the displayed instructions . shift the vehicle into drive . gradually press the accelerator until the drive unit speed no longer increases , regardless if the accelerator pressure is increased . release the accelerator and allow the vehicle to coast down . note do not shift into neutral or apply the brake . allow the drive unit to slow on its own . when the drive unit has stopped spinning , shift the vehicle into park .
release the straps that attach the rear subframe to the subframe lifting tool .
release the clip and remove the grommet that attach the front lh abs wheel speed sensor electrical harness to the knuckle .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh damper to the lh lower rear control arm .
remove the lh rear damper from the vehicle .
remove the center clip that attaches the lh and rh wheel liners to the body .
fasten the clip that attaches the steering wheel harness to the horn assembly .
remove and discard the retaining clip from the steering column control module connector , and then disconnect the electrical harness from the steering column control module connector . caution check for broken clip pieces on the connector , and remove if present .
remove the coolant hose clip from the 12v battery beam .
install all wheels . see wheel .
from the after front drive unit replacement action list , click service can redeploy , click run , and then allow the routine to complete .
disconnect the laptop with toolbox 3 from the vehicle .
lower the subframe lifting tool , and move it out from under the vehicle .
remove the lh and rh instrument panel end caps . see end cap instrument panel lh .
dual motor only : remove the nut that attaches the lh front jounce hose bracket to the vehicle .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh lower rear control arm to the knuckle .
maneuver the lh rear damper in place for installation .
install the spring compressor to the rear lh spring and compress the spring so that is it loose in the suspension . note the lowest hook of the spring compressor goes under the coil at the strut . the highest hook of the spring compressor goes over the coil at the hv battery . the spring compressor lead screw should center to , and pass through , the opening in the body .
connect the steering wheel horn assembly harness electrical connectors .
make sure that the clockspring tape indicator is visible in the inspection window in the upper left of the steering column control module .
remove the chiller to battery hose from the vehicle .
in toolbox , select the `` actions '' tab , select `` testreset_vcfront '' , click `` run : '' , and allow the routine to complete .
from the after front drive unit replacement action list , click coolant air purge , click run , and then allow the routine to complete .
install the rear drive unit hv harness in and up between the rear subframe and the hv battery . note rotate the harness as it is installed to allow access for the bracket .
remove the lh and rh air wave end caps . see end cap air wave lh .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the upper control arm to the knuckle , and then discard the nut .
hold the lh rear suspension spring while slowly dropping the support stand to release the lh lower rear control arm from the knuckle . note attach a bungee cord from the lh lower control arm to the spring to assist with the removal process , if needed .
handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear damper to the lower aft link . note the fasteners are fully tightened in a later step .
position the steering wheel surround onto the steering wheel , and then install the bolts . 5.4 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : t20 socket 4 in extension
remove the bolt that attaches the steering gear assembly to the electric steering column . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket
remove the bolt that attaches the steering column control module to the steering column . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 5 mm hex ball end bit ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 2 in extension
release the connector from the bracket .
remove the stanchions from the rear of the vehicle .
verify that the black release lever of the rear drive unit hv harness connector is in the open position , install the connector flat and square to the hv battery header , secure the release lever to the closed position , and then slide the red connector locking tab .
disconnect the a/c compressor hv harness connector . the connector is a 2 stage push release type . unlock by pulling back the red tab , and then push the orange lip and pull back stage 1 . push the green lip and pull back to disconnect .
perform a road test to make sure that brake pedal feel and brake performance are as expected .
inspect coolant level and top up as necessary .
on the vehicle touchscreen , open the hood to disengage the hood latch .
install the nut that attach the rear drive unit hv harness bracket to the hv battery . 10 nm
bleed the brakes . see brake fluid bleed / flush .
remove and discard the nuts that attach the stabilizer bar to the end links . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm socket 5 mm hex note loosen the nut first , and then continue to remove the nut by counterholding the ball joint with a hex wrench . note might need to move the rear stabilizer bar up/down to get the correct angle in order to remove the end links .
remove the lh middle apillar trim . see trim apillar middle lh .
release the clips that attach the hv cables to the body .
in toolbox , select the `` actions/autodiag '' tab , , select `` test_brake_x_stiffnesstestpressureburnished '' , click run , and allow the routine to complete .
remove the vehicle from the 2 post lift . see raise vehicle 2 post lift .
support the center of the rear stabilizer bar with a support stand .
remove the lh lower apillar trim . see trim apillar lower lh .
perform a validation test drive at road and highway speeds to determine if an alignment check is necessary . if the test drive shows the vehicle to track poorly or pull to the side , or if steering is sloppy or off center , then perform a four wheel alignment check . see four wheel alignment check , and add this service to the sv . if the test drive shows the vehicle to steer and handle as expected , then an alignment check is not necessary .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the rear stabilizer bar to the rear subframe . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 11 mm socket 6 in extension
remove the push clip that attaches the rh front wheel liner to the rh rocker panel .
perform a test drive and make sure that the vehicle 's braking and riding performance is as designed .
lower the support stand , and then remove the rear stabilizer bar from the vehicle .
if equipped , remove the driver knee airbag . see airbag knee driver .
use a bungee strap to pull back the rh front wheel liner . secure the strap to the subframe .
place the rear stabilizer bar into position for installation onto the vehicle , and then raise the support stand to support the rear stabilizer bar .
position a coolant drain container underneath the rh front side of the hv battery .
install new bolts that attach the rear stabilizer bar to the rear subframe . 30 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 11 mm socket 6 in extension
remove the screws that attach the ip carrier to the cross car beam on the lower lh side .
disconnect the pt supply hose and plug the male side of the hose .
align the lh end link with the rear stabilizer bar . note move the rear stabilizer bar up/down to get the correct angle to install the rear link .
release the clips that attach the steering column lower gap hider to the instrument panel subassembly , lift up and forward on the gap hider , and then down to remove the gap hider from the subassembly .
remove the coolant drain container from underneath the vehicle .
handtighten the new nut that attaches the lh end link to the rear stabilizer bar . note counterhold the ball joint with a hex wrench .
apply masking tape to the instrument panel , to protect the opening at the steering column .
remove the rear pt supply hose clips at the rh side from the body .
tighten the nut that attaches the lh end link to the rear stabilizer bar . mark the nut with a paint pen . 55 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm socket 5 mm hex
release the steering shaft boot from the bulkhead , and then pull it up from the bulkhead .
remove the coolant hose clips from the 12v battery beam .
disconnect the electrical harness from the steering column connector .
remove the fdu bypass hose clip from the subframe .
remove the nuts that attach the steering column to the cross car beam , and lower the steering column off of the studs .
remove the brake line bundle from the vehicle . note shift the bundle towards the rh front , and then remove the brake lines from the steering column area and out between the front subframe cavity .
with the help of an assistant , raise the upper portion of the steering column up toward the roof , pull down on the instrument panel carrier under the steering column to create space for the rear motor of the steering column to pass under the cross car beam , and carefully move the steering column out toward the rear of the vehicle .
before installing the cowl screen panel , fill the superbottle to the appropriate level . note make sure that the fluid level is 5 mm above the max line .
after the motor clears the cross car beam , rotate the steering column to the right so that the rear motor lower portion clears the instrument panel carrier , and continue to remove the steering column from the vehicle . note make sure that the intermediate shaft sleeves clear the bulkhead .
with the help of an assistant , carefully move the intermediate shaft of the steering column through the opening in the instrument panel carrier , rotate the steering column to the right so that the rear motor lower portion clears the instrument panel carrier opening , and then rotate left .
inspect the coolant level in the superbottle and top off as necessary .
raise the upper portion of the steering column up toward the roof , pull down on the instrument panel carrier under the steering column to create space for the rear motor of the steering column to pass under the cross car beam , carefully move the steering column in toward the front of the vehicle and up onto the studs of the cross car beam . note make sure that the intermediate shaft sleeves enter the bulkhead .
before installing the front aero shield to the vehicle , bleed the brake system . see brake fluid bleed / flush .
install the nuts that attach the steering column to the cross car beam . 15 nm
after installation is complete , perform a road test and confirm appropriate brake pedal feel and brake performance .
connect the electrical harness to the steering column connector .
inspect the vehicle for abnormal tire wear that might indicate the need for a wheel alignment . note any findings .
inspect the tires for abnormal wear . note use sc1400001 standard courtesy inspection checklist . note note any abnormal tire wear that could indicated the need for an alignment .
remove the mid aero shield . see panel aero shield mid .
remove and discard the nut that attaches the stabilizer bar link to the lh front spring and damper assembly , and then move the link aside .
remove the lh rear suspension spring from the vehicle .
install the bolts that attach the lh rear damper to the body at the top mount . 41 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm socket 3 in extension
position the horn assembly to the steering wheel , and then fasten the clips .
slide the electric steering column upward to remove it from the steering gear assembly . tip : wiggle the steering column or use a deadblow hammer for ease of removal .
remove the steering column control module from the steering column . note if the steering column control module removed will be reinstalled , make sure not to disturb the splined collar in the center of the module .
remove and discard the nuts that attach the lh drop link to the rear stabilizer bar and rear lh knuckle . 55 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 5 mm hex 15 mm combination flex head wrench 15 mm socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
remove and discard the nut that attaches the lh tie rod end to the knuckle , and then remove the tie rod end from the knuckle .
remove the spring compressor from the lh rear suspension spring . warning be careful while unloading the spring . hold the spring horizontally and facing away from you .
position and raise the underhoist stand to simulate the suspension at ride height .
tighten the bolt and nut that attach the rear toe link to the knuckle and mark the bolt and nut area with a paint pen . 76 nm
use an underhoist stand to support the hub jack adapter . note use the rear ride height torque gauge to verify that the rear suspension is set to ride height specifications and adjust the support stand or spring compressor tool , if necessary .
connect the lh steering wheel switch electrical connector . repeat this step for the rh steering wheel switch electrical connector . figure 2 . lh shown , rh similar
remove the fasteners that attach the underhood storage unit reinforcement bracket to the vehicle , and then remove the bracket from the vehicle . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension
verify that the black release lever of the rear drive unit hv harness connector is in the open position , install the connector flat and square to the rear drive unit inverter hv header , secure the release lever to the closed position , and then slide the red connector locking tab .
remove the lh and rh front wheels . see wheel .
remove the front fascia valance . see valance front fascia .
remove the lh front brake dust shield . see shield dust brake front lh .
place the vehicle into `` towing '' mode .
remove the drop link from the vehicle .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the lh rear hub to the knuckle , and remove the hub from the vehicle . 85 nm
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh front spring and damper assembly to the lower control arm .
with an assistant , install the spring compressor onto the new lh rear suspension spring , and then compress the spring .
adjust the underhoist stand and/or spring compressor until the lower beam of the rear ride height torque tool rests against the bottom edge of the lower aft link , as illustrated . figure 1 . some assemblies hidden for clarity
use the witness marks to align the cam bolt lobe to the rear subframe and tighten the nut to secure the lh rear toe link in position .
connect the lower electrical connector on the steering wheel controller .
use an inflatable air bag to position the fan assembly away from the steering gear for clearance .
carefully install the steering column control module onto the steering column , and then install the bolt that attaches the steering column control module to the steering column . 9 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 5 mm hex ball end bit ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 2 in extension
install the bolt that attaches the rear drive unit hv harness bracket to the rear drive unit inverter . 6 nm
remove the bolt that attaches the rear suspension cover to the lh lower rear control arm assembly . 6 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension
remove and discard the nuts that attach the front stabilizer bar to the lh and rh front stabilizer bar links , and then move the front stabilizer bar links aside . 98 nm note use a t40 bit to hold the stabilizer bar link ball joint in position . figure 1 . lh side shown , rh similar
remove and discard the nuts that attach the front lh stabilizer bar link to the stabilizer bar and damper , and then remove the link from the vehicle . 98 nm
remove the bolts that attach the lh front abs wheel speed sensor electrical harness to the lh front suspension knuckle . 5 nm
remove the lh rear suspension cover .
lift up on the lh front upper controll arm to separate it from the knuckle , then move the lh front spring and damper assembly down and out of the fuca mount .
install the new lh rear suspension spring into position while raising the support stand until the lh lower rear control arm is supported . note the lh rear suspension spring might need to be compressed further until the lh lower rear control arm and knuckle holes align .
measure the distance between the bottom of the quarter panel and the center of the rear axle to make sure that the rear suspension is set to ride height . the distance should measure 378 mm .
tighten the bolt and nut that attach the rear toe link to the subframe and mark the bolt and nut area with a paint pen . 85 nm
check the torque for the nut that attaches the lh rear lower fore link to the rear subframe , and then mark the nut with a paint pen . 76 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 18 mm socket 18 mm combination wrench flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
connect the steering wheel electrical wiring harness connector .
install an orange plastic retaining clip into the electrical harness connector for the steering column control module .
inspect the rear subframe electrical harness logic connector and the rear drive unit inverter logic connector for coolant , and use shop air and a clean dry shop towel to remove any coolant from the connectors .
release the tabs that attach the rear suspension cover to the lh lower rear control arm assembly , and then remove the rear suspension cover from the vehicle .
remove the clips that attach the valance to the front stabilizer bar brackets .
remove and discard the nuts that attach the front stabilizer bar to the front subframe , and then remove the stabilizer bar from the vehicle . 35 nm
remove the bolts that attach the lh side of the front aero shield panel to the vehicle . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket
remove and discard the nut that attaches the front lh lower compliance link to the knuckle . 180 nm
release the clip that attaches the lh front abs wheel speed sensor electrical harness to the lh front suspension knuckle .
remove clips from the wheel liner , and then move the wheel liner aside for better access .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear upper aft link to the lh rear suspension knuckle . 134 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended :
install a spring compressor onto the lh rear coil spring . note make sure that the spindle will go through the body opening when the lh rear suspension is compressed .
carefully remove the lh front spring and damper assembly from the vehicle .
handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh lower rear control arm to the knuckle .
tighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear damper to the lower aft link , and then mark the bolt and nut with a paint pen . 115 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : 21 mm socket 21 mm wrench paint pen
remove the underhoist stand from underneath the lh rear suspension .
check the torque for the nut that attaches the lh rear lower fore link to the knuckle , and then mark the nut with a paint pen . 76 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 18 mm socket 18 mm ratcheting combination wrench flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
install the driver airbag . see airbag driver .
remove the front wheels . see wheel .
connect the electrical harness to the steering column control module connector .
connect the rear subframe electrical harness to the rear drive unit inverter logic connector , raise the handle upward , and fasten the locking tab .
check the torque for the nuts that attach the front stabilizer bar to the front subframe , and then mark the nuts with a paint pen . 35 nm
install the front stabilizer bar to the front subframe , install new nuts to attach the stabilizer bar to the subframe , and then mark the nuts with a paint pen after they are torqued . 35 nm
remove the bolts that attach the lh front lower lateral link to the subframe . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 21 mm socket 6 in extension
remove the bolt and nut that attach the link to the front subframe , and then remove the link from the subframe and knuckle . 115 nm 115 nm
remove and discard the nut that attaches the lh tie rod end to the lh front suspension knuckle . 180 nm
place a support stand underneath the middle of the rear subframe .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear upper aft link to the subframe . 134 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 21 mm socket 21 mm combination wrench
loosen the lh rear halfshaft nut .
lift up on the lh front upper controll arm , and then carefully move the lh front spring and damper assembly up and into the fuca mount .
handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh lower rear control arm to the damper .
remove the lug nuts that attach the hub jack adapter , and then remove the hub jack adapter from the vehicle .
check the torque for the nut that attaches the rear stabilizer bar to the lh stabilizer bar link , and then mark the nut with a paint pen . 55 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm socket 5 mm hex socket 15 mm flex head combination ratcheting wrench flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
loosen the jamb nut to the rh outer tie rod end . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : combination 12pt 21 mm wrench wheel alignment torque wrench kit
perform a pushpullpush test to make sure that the steering column control module electrical connector is seated properly .
fasten the clip that attaches the rear subframe electrical harness to the rear drive unit inverter .
check the torque for the nut that attaches the lh front stabilizer bar link to the lh front spring and damper assembly , and then mark the nut with a paint pen . 98 nm
install the lh and rh front stabilizer bar links to the front stabilizer bar , install new nuts to attach the links to the stabilizer bar , and then mark the nuts with a paint pen after they are torqued . 98 nm note use a t40 bit to hold the stabilizer bar link ball joint in position . figure 2 . lh side shown , rh similar
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh strut to the lh front lower lateral link , and then remove the lh front lower lateral link from the vehicle . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 21 mm socket
replace all nyloc nuts .
remove the lh tie rod end from the vehicle .
apply tape at the front body of the lh rear wheel well to avoid damage during bolt removal . note cut 4 strips of gaffers tape about 34 inches long .
remove the clips that attach the coolant hose to the lh shear plate .
position the lh rear upper aft link onto the subframe , and then install and handtighten the bolt and nut . 134 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 21 mm socket 21 mm combination wrench
break the nut loose that attaches the lh rear lower aft link to the subframe .
handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh front spring and damper assembly to the lower control arm .
handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh lower rear control arm to the subframe .
install the bolt that attaches the lh rear brake rotor to the hub . 5 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension
check the torque for the nut that attaches the lh stabilizer bar link to the knuckle , and then mark the nut with a paint pen . 55 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm socket 5 mm hex socket 15 mm flex head combination ratcheting wrench flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
remove and discard the nut that attaches the rh tie rod end to the lh front suspension knuckle , and then remove the tie rod end from the knuckle . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm 12pt combination wrench 22 mm 12pt combination wrench 3 in extension
remove and discard the nut that attaches the rh tie rod end to the rh front suspension knuckle , and then remove the tie rod end from the knuckle . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm 12pt combination wrench 22 mm 12pt combination wrench 3 in extension
install the lower screw that attaches the steering column lower shroud to the steering column . 1.5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t20 socket ¼ in std ratchet 2 in extension wiha torquevarios 0.8 nm 2.0 nm screwdriver torx t20 bit , 70 mm wiha ¼ in bit holder adapter wiha torque setter
check the torque for the nut that attaches the lh tie rod end to the lh knuckle , and then mark the nut with a paint pen . 180 nm
install the front fascia valance . see valance front fascia .
remove and discard the nut that attaches the lh front lower lateral link to the knuckle . tip : if the impact gun does not remove the nut , use a 3/8 in ratchet with a torx t45 socket to counterhold the inner bolt , and then remove the nut with a 22 mm combination wrench . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 22 mm socket
remove the bolt and nut that secure the lh upper control arm to the lh front suspension knuckle . 56 nm 56 nm
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear upper fore link to the knuckle . 76 nm
remove the smaller bolts that attach the lh shear plate to the hv battery .
install a spring compressor onto the lh rear coil spring . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : gedore spring compressor
remove the bolt and nut that attach the rear damper to the lh rear lower aft link .
use the thinwalled strut removal socket special tool to install the nuts that attach the lh spring and damper assembly to the fuca mount . 23 nm
position a support stand underneath the lh lower rear control arm , and then raise the support stand to simulate vehicle at ride height . note make sure that the support stand does not block to the adjustment of the spring compressor or the lh rear suspension bolts .
remove the spring compressor from the lh rear coil spring .
check the torque for the nut that attaches the lh toe link to the rear subframe , and then mark the nut with a paint pen . 85 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 18 mm deep socket 18 mm combination wrench flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
remove the rh outer tie rod end from the steering gear assembly . note record the number of turns during removal .
install the upper screws that attach the steering column lower shroud to the steering column . 1.5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t20 socket ¼ in std ratchet 2 in extension wiha torquevarios 0.8 nm 2.0 nm screwdriver torx t20 bit , 70 mm wiha ¼ in bit holder adapter wiha torque setter
install the rear drive unit inverter inlet tube in and up between the rear subframe and the hv battery .
check the torque for the nut that attaches the lh upper control arm to the lh knuckle , and then mark the nut with a paint pen . 56 nm
position the lh front lower lateral link into the vehicle , and then handtighten the bolts that attach the lh front lower lateral link to the front subframe . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 21 mm socket 6 in extension
remove and discard the nut that attaches the lh front lower compliance link to the front suspension knuckle . 180 nm
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear upper fore link to the subframe . 76 nm
loosen the larger bolt that attaches the lh shear plate to the subframe , move the shear plate away , and then retighten the bolt . note moving the shear plate away creates the required space for removal of the subframe bolt of the rear lower fore link .
remove the bolt that attaches the lh rear brake rotor to the hub , but do not remove the rotor from the assembly . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear lower aft link to the knuckle .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the lh rear caliper to the lh rear knuckle , remove the caliper from the knuckle , and allow the caliper to hang from an shook . 83 nm note handtighten the lug nut to secure the rotor on early production vehicles . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : external torx e18 ratchet/torque wrench
install a new nut to attach the stabilizer bar link to the lh front spring and damper assembly . 98 nm
move the rear diffuser aside , and then insert the top of the rear ride height torque tool in the subframe hole .
remove the spring compressor tool from the vehicle : carefully loosen the fastener head on the bottom of the compression rod , making sure the top of the coil is seated in place . twist the compression rod so that the tabs are aligned with the openings in the top plate . lower the compression rod through the hole in the suspension , and remove the compression rod and bottom plate . remove the top plate from the coil .
install the lh rear suspension cover . see cover rear suspension lh .
check the torque for the nut that attaches the lh toe link to the knuckle , and then mark the nut with a paint pen . 76 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended :
repeat step 19 through step 21 for the lh side of the vehicle .
repeat steps 19 and 20 for the lh side of the vehicle .
install the clips that attach the steering column upper shroud to the lower shroud .
fasten the clip that attaches the rear drive unit inverter inlet tube to rear drive unit hv harness .
check the torque for the nut that attaches the lh front lower compliance link to the front subframe , and then mark the nut with a paint pen . 115 nm
install a new nut that attaches the lh front lower lateral link to the knuckle . 180 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 22 mm socket 22mm combination wrench flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench torx t45 socket
remove and discard the nut that attaches the lh front lower lateral link to the lh front suspension knuckle . 180 nm
remove the lh rear upper fore link from the vehicle .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear lower fore link to the knuckle .
handtighten the nuts that attach the rear hub jack adapter to the lh rear hub .
use a 3/4 ton underhoist stand to hold the coil spring while slowly lowering the support stand to release the lh rear lower aft link from the knuckle . note attach a bungee cord from the lh rear lower aft link to the coil spring to assist , if needed .
install a new nut to attach the lh tie rod end to the knuckle . 180 nm
adjust the support stand until the lower beam of the rear ride height torque tool rests against the bottom edge of the lower control arm , as illustrated . figure 1 . some assemblies hidden for clarity
install the rear suspension cover . see cover rear suspension lh .
check the torque for the nut that attaches the lh rear lower aft link to the rear subframe , and then mark the nut with a paint pen . 115 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 21 mm socket 21 mm combination wrench
fully compress the lh tie rod end link into the steering gear . note may need to pull the rh tie rod end link outward to assist with removal .
remove the red locking tab from the new steering column control module by lifting it off .
remove the plugs from the fittings , immediately connect the rear drive unit inverter inlet hose to the hv battery , fasten the clip , and then perform a pushpullpush check of the fitting .
check the torque for the nuts that attach the lh front lower lateral link to the front subframe , and then mark the nuts with a paint pen . 115 nm
handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh strut to the lh front lower lateral link . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 21 mm socket 21mm combination wrench
remove the front suspension knuckle and hub assembly from the vehicle .
install lh rear upper fore link to subframe and hand tighten nut and bolt . note torque at later step .
remove the bolt that attaches the lh rear lower fore link to the subframe .
position a support stand underneath the hub jack adapter , and then raise the support stand to simulate vehicle at ride height .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear lower aft link to the subframe , and then remove the link from the vehicle .
remove the bolt that attaches the brake rotor to the hub . note early production vehicles may not be equipped with a bolt securing the rotor .
install the upper control arm into the knuckle , and then install the bolt and a new nut to attach the upper control arm to the knuckle . 56 nm
measure the distance between the topmost edge of the fender arch to the center of the rear axle to make sure that the rear suspension is set to ride height : the distance should measure 378 mm .
check the torque for the nut that attaches the lh rear lower aft link to the knuckle , and then mark the nut with a paint pen . 115 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 21 mm socket 21 mm ratcheting combination wrench flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
position a coolant drain container beneath the front of the vehicle .
remove the lh outer tie rod end from the steering gear assembly . note record the number of turns during removal . figure 1 . rh shown , lh similar
remove the plugs from the fittings , immediately connect the rear drive unit inverter inlet hose to the rear drive unit inverter , fasten the clip , and then perform a pushpullpush check of the fitting .
align the rh end link with the rear stabilizer bar . note move the rear stabilizer bar up/down to get the correct angle to install the rear link .
check the torque for the nut that attaches the lh front lower compliance link to the lh knuckle , and then mark the nut with a paint pen . 180 nm
tighten the bolts that attach the lh front lower lateral link to the front subframe . 115 nm 115 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 21 mm socket
remove the bolts that attach the front hub to the front knuckle . 85 nm
install nut and bolt securing lh rear upper fore link to knuckle . note torque at later step .
remove the lh rear lower fore link from the vehicle .
use the rear ride height torque gauge to verify that the suspension is set within ride height specification . note might need to adjust the support stand or spring compressor tool slightly .
handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear lower aft link to the subframe .
dual motor only : install the nut that attaches the lh front jounce hose bracket to the vehicle . 6 nm
tighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh lower rear control arm to the knuckle , and then mark the bolt and nut with a paint pen . 115 nm 115 nm
check the torque for the nut that attaches the lh rear damper assembly to the lh lower aft link , and then mark the nut with a paint pen . 115 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended :
release the clip that attaches the radiator outlet hose to the superbottle , disconnect the hose , and then immediately plug the male and female fittings . note place absorbent material below the hose to avoid coolant on the steering gear connections .
handtighten the new nut that attaches the rh end link to the rear stabilizer bar . note counterhold the ball joint with a hex wrench .
check the torque for the nut that attaches the lh front lower lateral link to the lh knuckle , and then mark the nut with a paint pen . 180 nm
install the bolts that attach the lh side of the front aero shield panel to the vehicle . note apply loctite 222 to the bolts before installing . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket
separate the front hub from the front suspension knuckle .
remove the tape from the lh rear wheel well area , and then remove any leftover residue using ipa wipes .
install the lh rear lower fore link to the subframe , and then handtighten the bolt that attaches the lh rear lower fore link to the subframe .
install the coil spring into position for installation while raising the support stand until the lh rear lower aft link is supported . note might need to compress the coil spring further until the lh rear lower aft link and the knuckle holes align .
install the grommet and fasten the clip that attach the front lh abs wheel speed sensor electrical harness to the knuckle .
tighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh lower rear control arm to the damper , and then mark the bolt and nut with a paint pen . 115 nm 115 nm
check the torque for the nut that attaches the lh rear upper fore link to the rear subframe , and then mark the nut with a paint pen . 76 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 18 mm socket 18 mm combination wrench flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
release the clip that attaches the radiator inlet hose to the superbottle , disconnect the hose , and then immediately plug the male and female fittings . note place absorbent material below the hose to avoid coolant on the steering gear connections .
fasten the barrel clip that attaches the rear drive unit inverter inlet hose to the hv battery .
if equipped , remove the lh front wheel center cap . see cap wheel .
tighten the nut that attaches the rh end link to the rear stabilizer bar . mark the nut with a paint pen . 55 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm socket 5 mm hex
remove lh front wheel . see wheel .
check the torque for the nut that attaches the lh front stabilizer bar link to the front stabilizer bar , and then mark the nut with a paint pen . 98 nm
as described in sc1400001 : standard courtesy inspection checklist , inspect the vehicle for tire wear that indicates the need for wheel alignment .
remove the lh front upper control arm from the front upper control arm mount . see control arm upper front lh .
install a hub jack adapter onto the lh front hub , and then use a support stand to support the lh front suspension at ride height . note measure from bottom of fender to center of axle as a check to make sure lh suspension is set close to ride height . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : hub jack adapter 145940900a
make sure the tire pressures are to specification . note use the tire sticker values displayed on the door jam . if unavailable , use these values : 18 inch wheels 42 psi 19 inch wheels 42 psi 20 inch wheels 42 psi
apply sem selfetching primer to cover any exposed metal at the lh rear wheel well . note shake paint to mix prior to use .
handtighten the bolt and the nut that attaches the lh rear lower fore link to the knuckle .
tighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear upper aft link to the subframe . 134 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 21 mm socket 21 mm combination wrench
handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear lower aft link to the knuckle .
install the front lh abs wheel speed sensor into the knuckle , and then install a new bolt to attach the sensor to the knuckle . 5 nm
tighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh lower rear control arm to the subframe , and then mark the bolt and nut with a paint pen . 115 nm 115 nm
check the torque for the nut that attaches the lh rear upper fore link to the knuckle , and then mark the nut with a paint pen . 76 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended :
place the coolant hoses aside for clearance .
install the hv battery rear skid plate . see skid plate hv battery rear .
remove the support stand from underneath the vehicle .
repeat step 5 through step 12 on the rh side of the front suspension .
loosen the lh front wheel lug nuts . caution use a 6 point socket . do not use a 12 point socket or a specialty socket .
remove the lh front upper control arm mount isolator from the front upper control arm mount . note to help with reinstallation , note the position of the lh front upper control arm mount isolator .
tighten the bolts that attach the lh strut to lh front lower lateral link , and then mark the bolt and nut with a paint pen . 106 nm 106 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 21 mm socket
make sure that the alignment rack slip/turn plates are locked .
install the spring compressor onto the lh rear coil spring .
loosen the larger bolt that attaches the lh shear plate to the subframe , move the shear plate to its original position , and then handtighten the bolt .
tighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear upper aft link to the lh rear suspension knuckle . mark the bolt with a paint pen . tip : use of the following tool is recommended :
handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the rear damper to the lh rear lower aft link .
remove the lh rear brake rotor from the vehicle . caution place the rotor hat down to prevent damage to the rotor face .
check the torque for the nut that attaches the lh rear upper aft link to the rear subframe , and then mark the nut with a paint pen . 134 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 21 mm socket 21 mm combination wrench
release the connector locks , disconnect the steering gear assembly connectors , and then move the 12v steering gear harness aside for clearance .
fasten the clips that attach the coolant hoses to rh shear plate .
make sure the tire pressures are to specification . note use the tire sticker values displayed on the door jamb . if unavailable , use these values : 18 inch wheels 42 psi 19 inch wheels 42 psi 20 inch wheels 42 psi
release the parking brakes . see parking brake caliper rear lh .
remove the front subframe assembly . see subframe assembly front .
remove the bolts that attach the lh front hub to the knuckle , and then remove the hub from the vehicle . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 18 mm socket 3 in extension
install the lh and rh front wheels . see wheel .
remove the nuts that attach the front upper control arm mount to the lh front spring and damper assembly .
remove the support stand and hub jack adapter from the vehicle .
disconnect the charging cable from the vehicle . warning do not attach the charging cable to the charge port while the vehicle is on the rack .
remove the bolt that attaches the lh rear brake rotor to the hub , but do not remove the rotor from the assembly .
install and handtighten the smaller bolts that attach the lh shear plate to the hv battery .
remove the support stand front underneath the lh suspension .
remove the bolts that attach the lh rear hub to the knuckle , and then remove the hub from the axle . figure 1 . halfshaft hidden for clarity
remove the spring compressor from the lh rear suspension spring .
check the torque for the nut that attaches the lh rear upper aft link to the knuckle , and then mark the nut with a paint pen . 134 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended :
release the connector locks , and then disconnect the logic connectors below the steering gear .
in toolbox , click actions , type `` sccm '' in the search field , click on `` pingtp_ sccm '' , and then select run .
fasten the clips that secure coolant hoses to the rear skid plate . note clip quantity varies with older vehicles .
raise the vehicle , and then remove the lh front wheel . see wheel .
disconnect the electrical harness from the inverter low voltage connector .
lower the vehicle from the lift .
remove the steering rack . see steering rack .
loosen the lh and rh front wheels . refer to wheel .
remove the steering rack . see steering rack .
check the tone ring on the lh front hub prior to installation : use a magnetic field viewing card to make sure that the magnetic field on the tone ring is not damaged .
raise the vehicle on a 4 post lift . see raise vehicle 4 post lift .
remove the front upper control arm mount from the lh front spring and damper assembly .
drive the vehicle onto the alignment rack , and stop the vehicle approximately 6 inches before the turn plates to allow for rolling compensation .
torque the larger bolt that attaches the lh shear plate and subframe to the body . 128 nm
remove the hub jack adapter from the lh rear hub .
remove the bolts that attach the lh rear brake dust shield to the knuckle , and then remove the dust shield from the vehicle .
remove the outer bolts that attach the steering gear assembly to the front subframe . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench 11 in extension
fasten the clips that attach the coolant hoses to lh shear plate .
with an assistant , remove and discard the nuts that attach the front stabilizer bar to the front subframe , and then remove the stabilizer bar from the subframe .
set the steering wheel in the straight ahead position , and then use a steering wheel holder to lock the steering wheel into position .
position the lh front hub on the knuckle , and then install the bolts that attach the hub to the knuckle . 85 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 18 mm socket 3 in extension
check the torque for the nut that attaches the lh front spring and damper assembly to the lh front lower lateral link , and then mark the nut with a paint pen . 106 nm
install the front upper control arm mount onto the lh front spring and damper assembly , and then install the nuts that attach the mount to the damper assembly . 23 nm
shift into park .
torque the smaller bolts that attach the lh shear plate to the hv battery . 30 nm
install the bolt that attaches the lh rear brake rotor to the lh rear hub . 5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
remove the bolt that attaches the rear lh abs wheel speed sensor to the knuckle .
install the bolts that attach the front part of the rear fascia diffuser to the vehicle . 4 nm
remove the inner bolts that attach the steering gear assembly to the front subframe . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 18 mm socket 6 in extension
install the rear stabilizer bar to the rear subframe , and then install new bolts to attach the stabilizer bar to the subframe . 30 nm
position the hub puller tool onto the lh front wheel studs , and then handtighten the wheel lug nuts .
release the clip , disconnect the rear drive unit inlet hose from the inverter coolant coupling , and then plug the coupling .
remove the bolts and nuts that attach the lh and rh crash can brackets to the front subframe , and remove the brackets from the subframe . figure 1 . lh shown , rh similar
remove the bolts that attach lh and rh crash can brackets to the front subframe , and then set the crash can brackets aside .
install the lh front brake rotor . see brake rotor front lh .
check the torque for the nut that attaches the rh front spring and damper assembly to the rh front lower lateral link , and then mark the nut with a paint pen . 106 nm
install the lh front upper control arm mount isolator to the front upper control arm mount . note the lh front upper control arm mount isolator installs one way .
install wheel chocks .
use the rear ride height torque gauge to verify that the suspension is set within ride height specification . note you may need to adjust the support stand or spring compressor tool slightly .
install the clips that attach the coolant hose to the lh shear plate .
release the clip and remove the grommet that attach the rear lh abs wheel speed sensor cable to the rear knuckle and bracket .
slide the steering gear assembly to the rh side of the vehicle to remove it through the underhood storage area .
install the lh rear stabilizer bar end link into the rear stabilizer bar . note move the stabilizer bar up and down to ease installation of the end link .
with an assistant , unlatch the front subframe from the subframe lifting tool , and the remove the front subframe from the subframe lifting tool .
install lh front wheel . see wheel .
remove the bolt that attaches the lh front brake rotor to the hub , but do not remove the rotor at this time .
install the clips that attach the valance to the front stabilizer bar brackets .
install the lh front upper control arm to the front upper control arm mount . see control arm upper front lh .
install seat covers on the driver and front passenger seats .
fasten the steering shaft boot to the bulkhead .
tighten the bolt that attaches the lh rear lower aft link to the subframe . mark the bolt with a paint pen after the bolt is tighten . 115 nm 115 nm
move the vehicle to the alignment rack .
remove the spring compressor from the rear lh spring .
loosen the jamb nut to the lh and rh tie rod ends on the new steering gear assembly tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 21 mm combination wrench 14 mm combination wrench
install a new nut to attach the lh rear stabilizer bar end link to the rear stabilizer bar . 55 nm note use a 5mm allen wrench to prevent the ball joint stud from turning and damaging the ball joint .
remove the hub puller tool from the lh front wheel studs .
with an assistant , position the new subframe to the subframe lifting tool . note make sure that the 2 guides align .
position the hydraulic hub puller tool onto the lh front wheel studs , and then hand tighten the wheel lug nuts .
release the rear clip that attaches the lh shock tower cover to the vehicle , and then swivel the shock tower cover aside . figure 1 . model 3 shown ; model y similar figure 2 . model 3 shown ; model y similar
set 150 pounds of ballast bags onto the driver seat , and 150 pounds of ballast bags onto the front passenger seat .
remove the masking tape from the instrument panel .
torque the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear upper fore link to the subframe . 76 nm
tighten the bolt that attaches the lh rear lower aft link to the knuckle . mark the bolt with a paint pen after the bolt is tighten . 115 nm 115 nm
fully tighten the bolt and nut that attaches the lh front spring and damper assembly to the lower control arm . 106 nm
repeat step 3 through step 29 on the rh side of the rear suspension .
remove the lh and rh outer tie rod ends from the new steering gear assembly .
install the rh rear stabilizer bar end link into the rear stabilizer bar . note move the stabilizer bar up and down to ease installation of the end link .
remove the bolt that attaches the lh front brake hose bracket to the lh front suspension knuckle .
from outside of the vehicle , fasten the driver and front passenger seat belts , and shift into neutral .
remove the lh and rh rear wheel arch liners . see wheel arch liner rear lh .
handtighten the bolts that attach the lh and rh crash can brackets to the front subframe . note the tightening of the lh and rh crash can brackets occurs later during the installation of the front subframe assembly . figure 2 . lh shown , rh similar
repeat steps 5 to 6 on the rh front drive unit halfshaft .
remove the lh front drive unit halfshaft from the lh front hub assembly . note while holding the hub in position , turn the hydraulic hub puller tool handle clockwise to separate the lh front drive unit halfshaft from the hub assembly .
remove the vehicle from the 4 post lift . see raise vehicle 4 post lift .
remove the lh clip that attaches the cowl screen panel to the vehicle . figure 3 . model 3 shown ; model y similar
lift the steering column lower gap hider up , rearward , and down to install the gap hider onto the instrument panel subassembly , then fasten the clips that attach the gap hider to the subassembly .
torque the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear upper fore link to the knuckle . 76 nm
remove the vehicle from the lift . see raise vehicle 2 post lift .
tighten the bolt and nut that attach the rear damper to the lh rear lower aft link . mark the bolt with a paint pen after the bolt is tighten . 115 nm 115 nm
remove and discard the nut that attaches the lh stabilizer bar link to the lh rear suspension knuckle , and then remove the link from the knuckle . note counterhold the ball joint with a 5 mm hex wrench .
with assistance , fully disperse the pressure of the steering rack to the rh side tip : use of the following tool is recommended : combination 12pt 15 mm wrench
install a new nut to attach the rh rear stabilizer bar end link to the rear stabilizer bar . 55 nm note use a 5mm allen wrench to prevent the ball joint stud from turning and damaging the ball joint .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the lh front brake caliper to the lh front suspension knuckle , and then use an shook to hang the caliper off of the vehicle .
pass a shop towel halfway through the both door strikers , and use a pen to latch the doors .
with an assistant , put the front stabilizer bar onto the front subframe , and then install new nuts to attach the front stabilizer bar to the front subframe . 55 nm
release the locking tab , and then push the handle downward to disconnect the front drive unit inverter logic connector .
lift the cowl screen panel and mark the positions of the lh front upper control arm mount bolts . figure 4 . model 3 shown ; model y similar
install the screws that attach the ip carrier to the cross car beam on the lower lh side . 2.3 nm
remove the hub jack adapter onto the lh rear hub .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear upper aft link to the lh rear suspension knuckle . 134 nm 134 nm
remove the long bolts from the front of the rear subframe , install the lh and rh shear plates to the subframe and hv battery , and then install the bolts that attach the shear plates to the subframe and hv battery . 30 nm 128 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket 21 mm socket 3 in extension 6 in extension
position the steering gear assembly into the vehicle note position the rh side of the steering gear assembly into the underhood storage area first , and then slide the lh side into the vehicle .
install the rear drive unit ground strap to the body in the lh rear wheel arch , and then install the nut that attaches the ground strap to the body . 10 nm
raise the alignment rack to a working height and slightly lower to lock .
remove the rear fascia diffuser . see diffuser rear fascia .
install the steering rack . see steering rack . caution 2nd generation front subframes can not accommodate 1st generation steering racks . a 2nd generation steering rack must be installed .
remove the bolt that attaches the intermediate shaft to the steering rack assembly , and then slide the intermediate shaft upwards .
release the red locking tab , and then press down on the tab to disconnect the resolver logic connector .
remove the bolt that attaches the front brake hose bracket to the lh front knuckle .
remove the smaller bolts that attach the spring and damper assembly to the shock tower . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench figure 5 . model 3 shown ; model y similar
install the bolt that attaches the lh rear brake rotor to the lh rear hub . 5 nm
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear upper fore link to the lh rear suspension knuckle . 76 nm 76 nm
fasten the fir tree clips that attach the coolant hoses to the lh and rh shear plates .
loosely install the inner bolts that attach the steering gear assembly to the front subframe .
fasten the clip that attaches the rear subframe harness to the body on the lh side .
remove the bolts that attach the lh front hub to the lh front knuckle .
check the torque on the bolt and nut that attach lh and rh front lower lateral links to the lh and rh front spring and damper assembly . 106 nm 106 nm
remove the lh and rh coil springs from the rear lower aft links .
remove the bolts that attach the lh rear brake caliper bracket to the knuckle , and then hang the caliper bracket on the body with an shook . repeat this step on the rh rear brake caliper . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : external torx e18
position the subframe lifting tool and front subframe underneath the vehicle for installation .
disconnect the electrical connectors from the steering rack assembly .
release the grey locking tab , and then press down on the tab to disconnect the oil pump connector .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the lh front brake caliper to the lh front knuckle , and then hang the caliper aside with an shook .
remove the larger bolts that attach the spring and damper assembly to the shock tower . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench figure 6 . model 3 shown ; model y similar
install the alignment heads onto the wheels .
if equipped , install the driver knee airbag . see airbag knee driver .
install the clips that attach the wheel arc liner to the body . note 2x clips .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh toe link to the lh rear suspension knuckle . 76 nm 76 nm
install the outer bolts that attach the steering gear assembly to the front subframe . 27 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench 11 in extension
connect electrical harness to the rear subframe harness lh connector .
remove the lh front hub from the vehicle .
install the front subframe assembly into the vehicle . see subframe assembly front .
remove the bolts that attach the upper portion of the front fascia to the vehicle .
release the clip that attaches the front drive unit harness to the front drive unit motor .
remove the lh front rotor from the vehicle .
remove the wheel chocks .
remove the spring compressor onto the lh rear coil spring .
tighten the bolts that attach the lh rear lower fore link bolt to the knuckle and to the subframe . mark the bolt with a paint pen . 76 nm
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear lower fore link to the lh rear suspension knuckle . 76 nm 76 nm
install the center clip that attaches the lh and rh wheel liners to the body .
tighten the inner bolts that attach the steering gear assembly to the front subframe . 75 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 18 mm socket 6 in extension
fasten the clip that attaches the rear subframe harness to the body on the rh side .
raise the vehicle partially .
release the clips that attach the front drive unit harness to the front subframe . figure 2 . other assemblies hidden for clarity
remove the bolts that attach the lh front hub to the lh front knuckle .
type the vehicle information into the alignment machine .
install the lh lower apillar trim . see trim apillar lower lh .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear aft lower link to the lh rear suspension knuckle . 115 nm 115 nm
install the bolts that attach the front of the rear diffuser to the body . 4 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension
connect the logic connectors below the steering gear , and then engage the connector locks .
connect electrical harness to the rear subframe harness rh connector .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the lh front abs wheel speed sensor and electrical harness to the lh front suspension knuckle .
remove the bolts that attach the lh rear damper at the top mount . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm socket 3 in extension
release the clips that attach the front drive unit harness to the front drive unit inverter .
release the clips that attach the wheel speed sensor harness to the lh front upper control arm , and then set the harness aside . figure 7 . model 3 shown ; model y similar
perform a rolling compensation and manually position the vehicle onto the slip/turn plates .
install the lh middle apillar trim . see trim apillar middle lh .
remove the lh rear suspension knuckle from the vehicle .
install the lh and rh rear suspension covers . 6 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension
connect the steering gear assembly connectors , and then engage the connector locks .
install the rear diffuser . see diffuser rear fascia .
remove the cabin intake duct assembly . see duct cabin intake .
remove the rh air wave duct . see duct air wave rh .
remove the lh and rh side rail trims . see trim side rail lh .
repeat steps 12 and 13 on the rh rear damper .
remove the front drive unit harness from the front subframe .
use a magnetic field viewing card to check the lh front hub 's tone ring .
if the vehicle is equipped with a ride height sensor : disconnect the lh front ride height sensor connector . figure 8 . model 3 shown ; model y similar remove the bolt that attaches the lh front ride height sensor arm to the upper control arm , and then remove the sensor arm from the upper control arm . note to help with reinstallation , note the orientation of the sensor arm relative to the upper control arm . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 12 mm combination wrench 10 mm socket figure 9 . model 3 shown ; model y similar
reinstall the wheel chocks .
install the steering column control module . see module steering column control .
position the lh rear suspension knuckle on the rear suspension .
install the radiator inlet hose onto the superbottle , and then fasten the clip that attaches the hose to the superbottle . note place absorbent material below the hose to avoid coolant on the steering gear connections .
remove and discard the nut that attaches the lh tie rod end to the lh front suspension knuckle , and then remove the tie rod end from the knuckle .
remove the lh and rh lower apillar trim . see trim apillar lower lh .
disconnect the electrical connectors from the ecall antenna .
open the lh and rh hook covers , and then release the clips that attach the screw covers to the lh and rh coat hooks .
d isconnect the electrical harness from the lh 12v subframe connector s .
release the clips that attach the valance to the body .
position the subframe assembly under the gantry .
apply antiseize silicone paste to the outboard side of the lh rear halfshaft assembly . note clean the halfshaft before applying if necessary . note apply no more than 1 gram to axle only .
remove and discard the nut that attaches the stabilizer bar link to the lh front spring and damper assembly , and then move the link aside . note counterhold the ball joint while loosening the nut . tip : if needed , use a pry bar to release the end link . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 18 mm combination wrench torx t40 socket cordless ratchet/impact driver figure 10 . model 3 shown ; model y similar
remove the alignment slip/turn plate pins .
install the main instrument panel decor trim . see decor trim instrument panel main .
remove the spring compressor from the lh rear suspension coil spring .
install and handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear aft lower link to the lh rear suspension knuckle .
install both rear wheels . see wheel .
install the radiator outlet hose onto the superbottle , and then fasten the clip that attaches hose to the superbottle . note place absorbent material below the hose to avoid coolant on the steering gear connections .
install the lh and rh rear suspension covers . see cover rear suspension lh .
remove the bolt and discard the nut that attach the lh upper control arm to the lh front suspension knuckle .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the lh front motor mount isolator to the body , and then remove the isolator from the vehicle . warning secure the lh front motor mount isolator while removing the bolts , as the isolator will fall once unbolted .
remove the forward facing camera . see camera triple forward facing .
remove the rh side rail trim . see trim side rail lh .
remove the lh side rail trim . see trim side rail lh .
remove the lh and rh upper apillar trims . see trim apillar upper lh .
remove the screws that attach the ecall antenna to the ip assembly .
remove the screws that attach the lh and rh rear coat hooks to the vehicle . 2.5 nm
release the clip that attaches the lh subframe electrical harness to the body .
install the drive unit sling onto the gantry hook .
line up the lh front drive unit halfshaft splines , and then install the lh front hub on the lh front knuckle .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the upper control arm to the knuckle , and then discard the nut . note compress the upper control arm ball joint downwards to help release the bolt . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm combination wrench torx t50 socket cordless ratchet/impact driver figure 11 . model 3 shown ; model y similar
if necessary , calibrate the ride height tool . use a tape measure to measure the height of the tool . if necessary , adjust the metal knob to compensate for the height of the tool .
install the lh and rh air wave end caps . see end cap air wave lh .
install and handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear lower fore link to the lh rear suspension knuckle .
position the fan assembly back into its original position
remove and discard the nut that attaches the lh front lower compliance link to the front suspension knuckle .
install an oring 5 threads from the tip of each new bolt .
disconnect the electrical harness from the humidity and temperature sensor connector .
disconnect the backlight electrical connector from the tuner .
disconnect the electrical connector from the fm antenna amplifier .
remove the center console air vent panel . see assembly rear vent center console .
if necessary , calibrate the ride height measurement tool . use a tape measure to measure the height of the tool . if necessary , adjust the metal knob to compensate for the height of the tool .
remove the rh footwell duct . see duct footwell rh .
remove the ecall antenna from the vehicle .
release the clips that attach the lh and rh upper bpillar trims to the vehicle , and then set the bpillar trims aside . see trim bpillar upper lh . note it is not necessary to completely remove the upper bpillar trims from the vehicle . while still attached to the seatbelt , set the trim aside .
use the hub puller to free the lh rear halfshaft from the hub splines . note the halfshaft is removed at a later step .
repeat steps 15 and 16 on the rh side of the vehicle .
install the drive unit sling hooks onto the front drive unit . figure 3 . front drive unit sling hook locations
install the bolts that attach the lh front hub to the lh front knuckle . 85 nm
pull the lh front spring and damper assembly outboard so that the front upper control arm mount clears the wheel arch liner . tip : hold the front upper control arm mount and use thumbs to push the wheel arch liner past the mount . figure 12 . model 3 shown ; model y similar figure 13 . model 3 shown ; model y similar
measure the ride height at the 4 locations shown . note the locations are 75 mm towards the centerline from the vehicle lifting points .
install the lh and rh instrument panel end caps . see end cap instrument panel lh .
install and handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh toe link to the lh rear suspension knuckle .
position the underhood storage unit reinforcement bracket onto the cooling fan , and then install the fasteners that attach the bracket to the assembly . 16 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension
remove and discard the nut that attaches the lh front lower lateral link to the lh front suspension knuckle .
handtighten the new bolts that attach the lh front motor mount isolator to the body .
disconnect the electrical harness from the gps antenna connector .
disconnect the electrical connectors from the front of the tuner .
remove the bolt and release the clip that attach the fm antenna amplifier to the cpillar , and then remove the amplifier from the cpillar . 4 nm note the fm antenna amplifier is still connected to the backlight harness .
remove the screws that attach the vent unit to the center console air vent panel , and remove the vent unit from the panel . 1.6 nm
measure the ride height at 4 locations which are an additional 75 mm towards the centerline from the vehicle lifting points .
release the clips that attach the rear end of the headliner to the vehicle , and then insert up a rolled up rag between the headliner and body for additional clearance . caution take care not to bend the headliner .
remove the lug nuts and the lug nuts from the lh rear rotor studs , and then remove the hub puller from the rotor .
remove the nut that attaches the rear drive unit ground strap to the body . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm 12point deep socket
remove and discard the nut that attaches the lh tie rod end to the knuckle .
slightly raise the gantry hook until the drive unit sling is taut .
install the lh front rotor on the lh front hub , and then install the bolt that attaches the rotor to the hub . 5 nm
remove the bolts that attach the lh front upper control arm to the front upper control arm mount . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm deep socket cordless ratchet/impact driver
check that the vehicle 's ride height is within specifications . see wheel alignment . note move the front seats fore or aft to set the ride height to spec .
install and handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear upper fore link to the lh rear suspension knuckle .
reconnect the laptop with toolbox 3 to the vehicle .
remove the lh front suspension knuckle from the vehicle .
remove the screws that attach the rear center console usb hub to the center console air vent , and remove the usb hub from the vent . 1.1 nm
check that the vehicle 's ride height is within specifications . see wheel alignment .
install the bolt that attaches the lh rear brake rotor to the hub . 5 nm note reinstall the lug nut previously installed for early production vehicles .
remove the rear stabilizer bar . see stabilizer bar rear .
use a rubber hammer to remove the lh tie rod end from the vehicle .
remove the bolt that attaches the front drive unit to the front subframe .
install the new bolts that attach the lh front brake caliper to the lh front knuckle , and then remove the shook from the vehicle . 94 nm note mark the bolts with a paint pen .
remove the lh front upper control arm from the front upper control arm mount .
install the brake pedal depressor and steering wheel bubble level .
install and handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear upper aft link to the lh rear suspension knuckle .
partially raise the vehicle .
rest the lh front drive unit half shaft in the lh front suspension knuckle , and then install a new nut that attaches the knuckle to the lower lateral link . 180 nm
install the brake pedal depressor and steering wheel bubble leveler .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear damper to the lh lower aft link , and then remove the damper from the rear subframe .
remove and discard the nut that attaches the lh front stabilizer bar to the front sway links , and then set the front sway links aside .
lift the front drive unit up and away from the front subframe . note make sure not to move the rear front drive unit support posts .
install the bolt that attaches the front brake hose bracket to the lh front knuckle . 5 nm
position the lh front upper control arm into the front upper control arm mount , and then install and handtighten the bolts that attach the control arm to the mount .
perform a caster sweep , center and set the steering wheel using the bubble level and steering wheel holder .
install and handtighten the nut that attaches the lh stabilizer bar link to the lh rear suspension knuckle . note counterhold the ball joint with a 5 mm hex wrench .
install the rh outer tie rod end onto the steering gear assembly . note turn the tie rod clockwise using the exact number of turns noted during removal .
install a new nut that attaches the lh front lower compliance link to the lh front suspension knuckle . 180 nm note use a t45 bit to hold the lh front lower compliance link in position .
perform a caster sweep , center and set the steering wheel using the bubble leveler and steering wheel holder .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh lower aft link to the knuckle .
reinstall and handtighten the upper bolts that are used to attach the skid plate to the hv battery , but do not install the skid plate at this time . 30 nm
remove and discard the nut that attaches the rh tie rod end to the knuckle , and then set the tie rod end aside .
release the straps that attach the front subframe to the subframe lifting tool .
install the fuca ride height tool onto the front upper control arm mount at the rear outer mounting hole . note for newer front upper control arms , updated fuca ride height tools might not be available . in that case , follow these instructions to set the ride height : lay a pocket ruler across the upper flat surface of the front upper control arm . use another pocket ruler to measure 60 mm between the front upper control arm mount threaded hole and the first pocket ruler . continue to hold this position and tighten the bolts that attach the lh front upper control arm to the front upper control arm mount . 50 nm after tightening , check the measurement again and adjust if necessary .
print the vehicle summary and identify which alignment parameters are not within specifications . note make sure to refer to the correct alignment specification for when ballast bags are used . note if the alignment parameters are within specifications , go to step 2 of complete the alignment .
return the front seats to their original positions .
position the rh tie rod end onto the rh front knuckle , and then install a new nut that attaches the tie rod and to the knuckle . 180 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm 12pt combination wrench 22 mm 12pt combination wrench 3 in extension
install the bolt and new nut that attach the lh upper control arm to the lh front suspension knuckle . 56 nm 56 nm
print the vehicle alignment summary and verify that the alignment parameters are within specifications .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh lower fore link to the rear subframe .
position the coolant drain beneath the lh rear of the hv battery .
use a rubber hammer to remove the rh tie rod end from the vehicle .
remove the front subframe from the subframe lifting tool .
install the lh front drive unit halfshaft into the lh front hub assembly , and then hand tighten a new halfshaft nut on the halfshaft .
hold the front upper control arm against the plate of the fuca ride height tool and tighten the bolts that attach the lh front upper control arm to the front upper control arm mount . 50 nm note after tightening , check the measurement again and adjust if necessary . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm deep socket cordless ratchet/impact driver
raise the alignment rack to an overhead height and slightly lower to lock .
with the help of an assistant , slide the intermediate shaft down onto the steering rack shaft , and then install the bolt that attaches the intermediate shaft to the steering rack shaft . 18 nm
install the clip and grommet that attach the rear lh abs wheel speed sensor cable to the rear knuckle and bracket .
tighten the jamb nut onto the rh outer tie rod end . 80 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : combination 12pt 21 mm wrench wheel alignment torque wrench kit
install a new nut that attaches the lh tie rod end to the lh front suspension knuckle . 180 nm
if the parameters are not within specifications , discontinue this procedure and perform a four wheel alignment adjustment . see four wheel alignment check and adjust . note add the adjustment to the repair order/service visit as an additional line item/activity .
remove the nut and bolt that attach the lh upper aft link to the rear subframe .
disconnect the rear drive unit inverter inlet hose from the lh side of the hv battery , and then plug the male and female fittings .
install the bolt that attaches the rear lh abs wheel speed sensor to the knuckle .
repeat step 16 through step 18 for the lh side of the vehicle .
install new bolts that attach the lh front abs wheel speed sensor and electrical harness to the lh front suspension knuckle . 5 nm
remove the alignment heads from the wheels .
model 3 disconnect the electrical harness from the front subframe electrical harness .
install the front wheels . see wheel .
install the clip that attaches the lh front abs wheel speed sensor electrical harness to the lh front suspension knuckle .
install the lh front brake dust shield . see shield dust brake front lh .
open the sliding bin lid of the center console .
apply approximately 1 gram of molykote m77 lubricant paste only to the hub mating face on the outboard side of the lh front drive unit halfshaft . caution do not apply any lubricant to the halfshaft splines . if lubricant is mistakenly applied , wipe the splines clean with a shop towel .
check the parts catalog to determine if a configuration update is required . if required , update the vehicle configuration .
position the lh front hub on the lh front suspension knuckle , and then insert the lh front halfshaft in the hub .
remove the bolt that attaches the lh front wheel speed sensor to the lh front knuckle , and then remove the sensor from the knuckle .
install the bolts that attach the lh front hub to the lh front knuckle . 85 nm figure 1 . halfshaft hidden for clarity
release the clips that attach the lh front wheel speed sensor harness to the lh front knuckle , then move the sensor and harness aside .
remove the bolt that attaches the lh front brake caliper hose bracket to the lh front knuckle . figure 3 . heat pump model 3 figure 4 . model 3
remove the shook , and then install the new bolts that attach the lh front brake caliper to the lh front suspension knuckle . 94 nm figure 2 . halfshaft hidden for clarity
remove and discard the bolts that attach the lh front brake caliper to lh front knuckle , remove the caliper , and then use an shook to hang the caliper off to the side . figure 5 . heat pump model 3 figure 6 . model 3
install the bolt that attaches the lh front brake hose bracket to the lh front suspension knuckle . 5 nm
remove and discard the nut that attaches the front stabilizer bar lh link to the front lh strut , and then remove the link from the strut . note to prevent damage to the link , use a t40 tool to prevent the link ball joint shaft from turning . note use a prybar on the stabilizer bar to unload the link and ease separation from the strut .
with the help of an assistant , remove the bolt and discard the nut that attach the lh front knuckle to the lh front upper control arm , and then slide the control arm out of the knuckle . note compress the control arm into the knuckle for easier bolt removal .
tighten the new bolts that attach the lh front motor mount isolator to the body . 62 nm
remove the screw that attaches the electrical harness to the windshield bracket , and then move the electrical harness aside . 1 nm
disconnect the electrical connector from the rear of the tuner .
release the tabs that attach the fm antenna amplifier cover to the fm antenna amplifier , and then remove the cover .
remove the center console . see center console .
disconnect the electrical connector from the wifi antenna .
remove the screw that attaches the gps antenna to the bracket , and then remove the gps antenna from the vehicle . 1 nm
release the clips that attach the wiring harnesses to the tuner .
disconnect the backlight electrical connector from the fm antenna amplifier .
remove the glove box . see glove box without knee airbags .
release the clips that attach the wifi antenna to the body , and then remove the antenna from the vehicle .
after the installation of the new gps antenna , perform the forward facing camera target calibration . see camera forward facing .
remove the bolts that attach the tuner to the body , and then remove the tuner from the vehicle .
remove the lh footwell duct . see duct footwell lh .
install the bolts that attach the tuner onto the body . 10.1 nm
release the clips that attach the rh air wave duct to the cross bar beam , and then remove the duct from the cross bar beam .
install the clips that attach the wiring harnesses onto the tuner .
remove and discard the nut that attaches the rh front sway link to the front stabilizer bar , and then move the link aside .
position the subframe lifting tool against the front subframe , and then attach the straps to the subframe . note make sure to align the two subframe lifting tool guides with the front subframe .
install the lh front wheel and hand tighten the wheel lug nuts .
remove the fuca ride height tool from the front upper control arm mount .
connect the electrical connector into the rear of the tuner .
remove the nut and bolt that attach the lh toe link to the rear subframe .
position the coolant drain beneath the rh rear of the hv battery .
raise the vehicle fully .
lower the front drive unit onto the front subframe . note make sure not to move the rear front drive unit support posts from their previous positions .
move the lh coil spring module and front upper control arm mount assembly into position , making sure the control arm mount bolt holes are aligned with the bolt holes on the body . figure 14 . model 3 shown ; model y similar . wheel arch liner removed for clarity .
adjust the rear camber . see adjust rear camber .
position the lh rear brake dust shield on the knuckle , and then install the bolts that attach the dust shield to the knuckle . 8 nm
connect the electrical connectors into the front of the tuner .
remove the touchscreen . see touchscreen .
with an assistant , remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh upper fore link to the rear subframe . note with the help of an assistant , separate the knuckle assembly from the rear subframe .
release the clip , disconnect the rear drive unit coolant outlet hose to powertrain return hose , and then plug the male and female fittings .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh front lower compliance link to the front subframe , and then move the link aside .
lower the vehicle so that the shock tower is accessible .
if the rear camber is within specification and does not require adjustment , adjust the rear toe . see adjust rear toe .
position the lh rear hub into the knuckle , and then install the bolts that attach the hub to the vehicle . 85 nm
pull straight up to release the clips that attach the lh front door tweeter assembly to the door . caution do not pull the tweeter assembly too far from the door panel , as the tweeter electrical connector is still attached .
connect the backlight electrical connector into the tuner .
install the alignment slip/turn plate pins .
remove the rh front vent . see vent front rh .
with an assistant , separate the lh halfshaft from the hub , and then remove the lh hub and knuckle assembly from the rear subframe .
remove and discard the bolt and nut that attach the lh front lower lateral link to the front subframe .
lower the gantry hook until the drive unit sling is slack .
fully tighten the new lh front drive unit halfshaft nut . 300 nm
install the larger bolts that attach the spring and damper assembly to the shock tower . 62 nm note line up the bolts with the paint marks made during removal . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench cordless ratchet/impact driver step stool figure 15 . model 3 shown ; model y similar
slightly loosen , but do not remove , the rear lh lower aft link to knuckle bolt .
install only the axle nut onto the halfshaft , and then use a ratchet and socket to manually tighten the nut to pull the halfshaft into the hub until it seats . caution do not use power tools to tighten the nut as it might strip the threads . note bolt will be torqued at a later step .
remove the rh trunk side trim . see trim side trunk rh .
disconnect the electrical wiring harness connector from the usb hub .
disconnect the electrical connector from the tweeter , and then remove the tweeter from the door .
remove the lh and rh mid apillar trims . see trim apillar middle lh .
install the rh side rail trim . see trim side rail lh .
lower the alignment rack to the ground .
remove the lh front vent . see vent front lh .
remove the nut that attach the hv battery to rear drive unit harness bracket to the hv battery . note the number of fasteners might vary on newer vehicles . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 4 in extension
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh front spring and damper assembly to the lower control arm , and then move the lh front lower lateral link aside .
remove the drive unit sling hooks from the front drive unit .
if equipped , install the lh front wheel center cap . see cap wheel .
install the smaller bolts that attach the spring and damper assembly to the shock tower . 35 nm note line up the bolts with the paint marks made during removal . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench cordless ratchet/impact driver step stool figure 16 . model 3 shown ; model y similar
adjust the rear lh camber to specifications . see wheel alignment . move the knuckle in toward the centerline to add positive camber . move the knuckle out from the centerline to add negative camber .
position the lh rear brake rotor onto the vehicle .
slide the electric steering column downward to install it onto the steering gear assembly . tip : make sure the intermediate shaft is aligned and fully seated .
add coolant to the reservoir as necessary , and install the reservoir cap .
disconnect the electrical harness from the amplifier connectors . caution make sure 12v power is disconnected before disconnecting the electrical connectors . failure to disconnect 12v power before removal can result in damage .
replace the lh rear door trim panel . see panel door trim rear lh . note the lh rear door speaker is permenantly attached to the lh rear door trim panel . to replace the speaker , a new door trim panel must be installed .
remove the lh front door trim panel . see panel door trim front lh .
remove the rh footwell cover . see cover footwell passenger .
remove the headliner from the vehicle . see headliner .
remove the power trunk lid trim and place the trim on a clean working surface . see trim lid power trunk .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the usb hub .
unlatch the driver 's door , shift into park , and remove the steering wheel bubble leveler .
remove the lh and rh dash speakers . see speaker dash lh .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the rh front lower compliance link to the front subframe , and then move the link aside .
remove the drive unit sling from the gantry hook .
install a new nut that attaches the stabilizer bar link to the lh front spring and damper assembly . 98 nm note counterhold the ball joint while torquing the nut . tip : if needed , use a pry bar to help position the end link . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t40 socket 18 mm combination wrench 6 in extension cordless ratchet/impact driver figure 17 . model 3 shown ; model y similar
if the camber is correct , go to step 11 .
install new bolts that attach the lh rear caliper bracket to the knuckle . 83 nm
install the bolt that attaches the steering gear assembly to the electric steering column . 18 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the subwoofer .
remove the lh and rh 2nd row seat side bolsters . see bolster side seat 2nd row lh .
disconnect the electrical connector from the front door speaker .
disconnect the electrical connector for the emergency speaker .
remove the soundproof foam from the lh front headliner speaker .
remove the lh and rh middle apillar trims . see trim apillar middle lh .
disconnect the electrical harness from the power chime .
use a plastic pry tool to release the clips that attach the top of the usb panel to the rear of the storage bin , release the clips that attach the bottom of the panel to the storage bin , and then move the panel to the side .
remove the bolts that attach the usb hub to the center console , and then remove the usb hub from the center console . 1.1 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t20 socket 4 in extension
remove the instrument panel speaker grille . see grille speaker instrument panel .
in toolbox , type tuner in the search field . note make sure that actions is selected , if not already .
unbuckle the seat belts .
remove the center dash speaker . see speaker dash center .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the rh front lower lateral link to the front subframe .
move the subframe lifting tool to a working area .
install the bolt and new nut that attach the upper control arm to the knuckle . 56 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm combination wrench torx t50 socket cordless ratchet/impact driver figure 18 . model 3 shown ; model y similar
slightly loosen , but do not remove , the rear lh lower aft link to subframe bolt .
remove the superbottle cap .
touch the brake pedal to ensure the drive rails are on .
remove the bolts and nuts that attach the subwoofer to the body , and then remove the subwoofer from the vehicle . 4.5 nm 4.5 nm
remove the lh and rh side rail trims . see trim side rail lh .
remove the screws that attach the front door speaker to the door , and then remove the speaker . 4 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 8 mm socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 2 in extension
release the screws that attach the emergency speaker to the rh footwell cover , and then remove the emergency speaker . 0.9 nm
disconnect the lh front headliner speaker electrical connector .
remove the screws that attach the power trunk chime to the power trunk lid trim , and then remove the chime from the trim . 2.3 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t20 socket 4 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
disconnect the electrical harness from the usb hub connectors , and then remove the usb panel from the center console .
remove the screws that attach the dash tweeter to the instrument panel , and then remove the tweeter from the vehicle . 2.3 nm
in toolbox , click the play button next to the pingbash_ tuner , and then select run .
remove the dash tweeter . see tweeter dash .
remove the nut and bolt that attach the lh lower control arm to the rear subframe , and then remove the control arm from the rear subframe .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the rh front spring and damper assembly to the lower control arm , and then move the link aside .
position the front drive unit harness on the front subframe , and then install the clips that attach the front drive unit harness to the subframe . figure 4 . other assemblies hidden for clarity
if the vehicle is equipped with a ride height sensor : install the ride height sensor arm onto the upper control arm , and then install the bolt that attaches the sensor arm to the upper control arm . note hold the ball stud in place with a wrench . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm combination wrench 10 mm socket figure 19 . model 3 shown ; model y similar connect the lh front ride height sensor connector . figure 20 . model 3 shown ; model y similar
adjust the rear lh camber to specifications . see wheel alignment . move the link in toward the centerline to add positive camber . move the link out from the centerline to add negative camber .
inspect the coolant level and top off as necessary . note ensure the fluid level is 5 mm above the `` max '' line .
from the resolver learn action list , click rear drive unit resolver error learning , click run , and follow the displayed instructions . shift the vehicle into drive . gradually press the accelerator until the drive unit speed no longer increases , regardless if the accelerator pressure is increased . release the accelerator and allow the vehicle to coast down . note do not shift into neutral or apply the brake . allow the drive unit to slow on its own . when the drive unit has stopped spinning , shift the vehicle into park .
remove the lh and rh upper cpillar trims . see trim cpillar upper lh .
remove the screws that attach the lh front headliner speaker to the headliner assembly . 0.5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t10 driver
remove the screws that attach the usb hub to the usb panel , and then remove the hub from the panel .
disconnect the electrical harness from the dash tweeter connector , and then remove the tweeter from the vehicle .
remove the vehicle from the alignment rack .
disconnect the front passenger airbag connectors .
repeat step 11 through step 30 for the rh side of the rear subframe .
position the rear subframe lifting tool beneath the rear subframe .
put the subframe lifting tool underneath the front subframe area .
install the clips that attach the front drive unit harness to the front drive unit inverter .
install the clips that attach the wheel speed sensor harness to the lh front upper control arm . figure 21 . model 3 shown ; model y similar
position the lh front headliner speaker onto the headliner assembly , and then install the screws that attach the speaker to the headliner assembly . 0.5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t10 driver
remove the screws that attach the lh dash speaker to the instrument panel , and then remove the speaker from the instrument panel . 2.3 nm
remove the screws that attach the center dash speaker to the instrument panel , and then remove the speaker from the instrument panel . 2.3 nm
install the usb hub to the usb panel , and then install the screws that attach the hub to the panel . 1.1 nm
remove the bolts that attach the front passenger airbag to the cross car beam . 8 nm
release the clip that attaches the rear drive unit ground harness to the rear subframe .
attach an air hose to the rear subframe lifting tool .
connect an air line to the subframe lifting tool .
install the clip that attaches the front drive unit harness to the front drive unit motor .
position the lh front wheel on the vehicle and handtighten the lug nuts that attach the wheel to the vehicle .
slightly loosen , but do not remove , the rear lh upper aft link to subframe bolt .
locate the rear ride height torque tool insertion point in the subframe , and then insert the rear ride height torque gauge to verify that the rear suspension is set to ride height specifications . adjust the support stand or spring compressor tool , if necessary . note the suspension is at the simulated ride height when the top of the tool touches the subframe and the lower part of the tool interfaces with the lower control arm . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 113785500a tool , rear ride height torque , model 3
remove the steering wheel holder and steering wheel level from the vehicle .
install the lh and rh rear wheels . see wheel .
release the tabs that attach the parcel shelf speaker grille to the vehicle .
connect the lh front headliner speaker electrical connector .
disconnect the electrical connector from the lh dash speaker , and then remove the speaker from the vehicle .
disconnect the electrical connector from the center dash speaker connector , and then remove the speaker from the vehicle .
position the usb panel into the center console storage bin , and then connect the electrical harness to the usb hub connectors .
remove the screws that attach the instrument panel carrier to the cross car beam at the front passenger airbag . 2.3 nm
with an assistant , raise the rear subframe lifting tool to support the rear subframe .
with an assistant , latch the front subframe to the subframe lifting tool . note make sure to align the two guides .
adjust the rear lh camber to specifications . see wheel alignment . to add positive camber , move the link out from the centerline . to add negative camber , move the link in toward the centerline .
remove the screws that attach the lh parcel shelf speaker to the vehicle . 2.3 nm note support and then remove the speaker bracket underneath .
install the soundproof foam to the lh front headliner speaker .
move the usb panel to the rear of the storage bin , and then fasten the clips that attach the usb panel to the rear of the storage bin .
remove the screws that attach the instrument panel carrier to the cross car beam . 2.3 nm
loop the straps over the rear subframe , hook the ends of the straps to the metal rings , and then pull the straps tight to restrain the subframe to the rear subframe lifting tool . note lower the vehicle to give more slack to connect the straps to the rings , if necessary .
remove the bolts that attach the front end carrier to the lh and rh front subframe crash can assemblies . figure 1 . lh shown , rh similar
connect the resolver logic connector , and then engage the locking tab . important : perform a pushpull test to verify that the connector is fully attached .
torque the lh front wheel lug nuts . see wheel .
if the camber can not be corrected , escalate a toolbox session .
tighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear aft lower link to the lh rear suspension knuckle . mark the bolt with a paint pen . 115 nm 115 nm
lift the lh parcel shelf speaker from the vehicle , and then disconnect the electrical connector from the speaker .
install the headliner from the vehicle . see headliner .
close the storage bin lid of the center console .
handtighten the new front drive unit halfshaft nut and washers .
slightly remove the instrument panel carrier from cross car beam to gain access to ecall antenna .
attach the drive unit sling special tool to the rear drive unit .
release the fir tree clips that attach the coolant hoses to the lh shear plate .
remove the bolts that attach the lh and rh mid mount body kit to the body . figure 2 . lh shown , rh similar
connect the front drive unit inverter logic connector , close the handle , and then engage the locking tab . important : perform a pushpull test to verify that the connector is fully attached .
tighten the suspension bolts that were loosened . lower aft link to knuckle bolt 115 nm lower aft link to subframe bolt 115 nm upper aft link to subframe bolt 134 nm
tighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear lower fore link to the lh rear suspension knuckle . mark the bolt with a paint pen . 76 nm 76 nm
connect to the vehicle with a laptop with toolbox 3.0 .
install the outer hvac plenum duct . see duct hvac plenum outer .
remove the lh parcel shelf speaker from the vehicle .
position the lh front wheel on the vehicle , and then handtighten the lh front wheel lug nuts .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh front strut to the lh front lower lateral link .
position the drive unit sling tool special tool underneath the gantry , and then attach the special tool to the gantry .
remove the smaller bolts that attach the lh shear plate to the hv battery . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket 3 in extension
remove the bolts that attach the front portion of the front subframe to the body . 72 nm
install the lh and rh front drive unit halfshafts into the front drive unit . caution take care not to damage or displace the oil seals . caution make sure that the opening of the snap rings are facing towards the bottom of the drive unit .
install the lh clip that attaches the cowl screen panel to the vehicle . figure 22 . model 3 shown ; model y similar
perform step 2 through step 11 for the rh side of the vehicle if necessary .
tighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh toe link to the lh rear suspension knuckle . mark the bolt with a paint pen . 76 nm 76 nm
click the actions/autodiag tab , and then search for `` purge '' .
remove the subwoofer . see subwoofer . caution make sure 12v power is disconnected before disconnecting the electrical connectors . failure to disconnect 12v power before removal can result in damage .
remove the car computer connectivity board . see connectivity board car computer .
lower the vehicle until the tires are touching the ground , and then fully tighten the lh front wheel lug nuts . see wheel .
remove the screws that attach the ecall antenna to the vehicle , and then remove the ecall antenna assembly from the vehicle .
repeat step 16 through step 22 on the rh side of the vehicle .
raise the drive unit sling tool so that there is a slight tension on the cables .
remove and discard the larger bolt that attaches the lh shear plate and rear subframe to the body , and then remove the lh shear plate . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 21 mm socket 6 in extension
remove the smaller bolts that attach the rear portion of the front subframe to the body .
verify that the halfshafts are fully seated : carefully push the halfshaft into the drive unit until there is an audible `` click '' from the halfshaft stub contacting the pinion shaft . there will be a slight pulling sensation on the halfshaft as the halfshaft circlip locks into place . pull on the inner halfshaft cup to confirm that the circlip is locked into place . if the halfshaft detaches from the drive unit then reinstall the halfshaft and then test that it is fully seated .
move the lh shock tower cover back into position , and then install the rear clip that attaches the cover to the vehicle . figure 23 . model 3 shown ; model y similar
adjust the rear toe . see adjust rear toe .
tighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear upper fore link to the lh rear suspension knuckle . mark the bolt with a paint pen . 76 nm 76 nm
remove the screws that attach the audio amplifier to the subwoofer assembly , and remove the amplifier from the subwoofer . 4.4 nm
remove the passenger footwell cover . see cover footwell passenger .
use a trim tool to move the catch to the right , and release the sim card from the slot in the car computer .
remove the front passenger knee airbag . see airbag knee front passenger .
fully tighten the new front drive unit halfshaft nut and washers . 300 nm
disconnect the electrical harness from the horn connectors . figure 7 . heat pump model 3 figure 8 . model 3
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lh mount of the rear drive unit to the subframe .
handtighten the smaller bolts that attach the lh shear plate to the body . note do not install the shear plate at this time .
remove and discard the larger bolts that attach the rear portion of the front subframe to the body .
handtighten the bolts that attach the lh and rh front subframe crash can brackets to the front subframe .
if the rear toe is within specification and does not require adjustment , adjust the front camber and caster . see adjust front camber and caster .
tighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear upper aft link to the lh rear suspension knuckle . mark the bolt with a paint pen . 134 nm 134 nm
install the front underhood storage . see underhood storage unit .
open lh front door
if `` tow mode '' is active , then disable `` tow mode . ''
open all doors and windows . note latch the rear doors to prevent accidental closing .
loosen for two revolutions the lower lh screw that attaches the car computer to the bracket .
remove the sim card from the car computer .
disconnect the electrical connector from the connectivity board .
remove the bolts that attach the front skid plate to the hv battery , and then remove the plate from the battery .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the rh bushing of the rear drive unit to the subframe .
repeat step 35 through step 38 for the rh shear plate .
with an assistant , lower the front subframe from the vehicle .
position the front stabilizer bar on the front subframe .
loosen the nut on the rear lh toe link to subframe bolt .
tighten the nut that attaches the lh stabilizer bar link to the lh rear suspension knuckle . mark the bolt with a paint pen . 55 nm
lower all four windows
lower thelh front window .
remove and discard the screw that attaches the emi shield to the bottom of the car computer .
destroy the sim card by cutting the card in half through the center of the gold pads , and then cut each piece into half , resulting in 4 pieces . caution it is mandatory to destroy the sim card to protect user data .
remove the bolt that attaches the connectivity board to the car computer .
release the clips that attach the rh front wheel arch liner to the rh rocker cover , and then move the liner aside .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the rear bushing of the rear drive unit to the subframe .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the rear subframe to the body . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 21 mm socket 6 in extension
disconnect the air line from the subframe lifting tool .
install new nuts to attach the front stabilizer bar to the front subframe , and then mark each nut with a paint pen . 35 nm
rotate the rear lh toe link to subframe bolt to adjust the rear lh toe to specifications . see wheel alignment . to add positive toe in , move the link in toward the centerline . to add negative toe out , move the link out from the centerline .
install the superbottle cap .
open hood informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note press `` open '' button on the touchscreen to release the latch , lift the lid manually
lower the emi shield .
install the new sim card into the car computer slot with the notch up and the gold pads facing away from the bulkhead . note if installing a nontesla sim card , refer to toolbox article 10088 for additional requirements . additionally , customer must complete form sc1521001 . caution make sure that the sim card goes into the slot , before releasing your grip of the sim card .
slide the locking tab away from the sd card to eject it from the car computer . note the sd card may eject quickly and fall into vehicle . note use tweezers to remove the sd card if the card remains in the car computer after it has been released . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : rectangular inspection mirror tweezers pocket screwdriver
use a trim tool to slide the sd card retaining tab over , and then use plastic tweezers to remove the sd card from the computer . caution make sure not to remove the sim card , located to the left of the sd card in this illustration .
carefully slide the connectivity board downwards , and then remove the board from the car computer . caution do not pull on the double fakra electrical connector . push on the outer tabs to release the board from the car computer .
move a coolant drain collector to underneath the rh front of the hv battery .
with an assistant , slowly lower the rear subframe lifting tool to remove the rear subframe from the vehicle . caution assist with the routing of hv harnesses and coolant hoses through components so that they do not `` catch '' .
move the subframe lifting tool from underneath the vehicle .
install the steering rack . see steering rack . caution 2nd generation front subframes can not accommodate 1st generation steering racks . a 2nd generation steering rack must be installed .
when the rear lh toe is correct , tighten the nut . 85 nm
remove the rear underhood apron . see underhood apron rear .
insert a pry tool into the top center slot of the service panel , and then release the clips and tabs that attach the service panel to the instrument panel .
remove the lh hood hinge cover . lh hood hinge cover shown , rh similar
use a mirror and tweezers to move the catch to the right , and release the sim card from the slot in the car computer .
carefully press the sim card fully into the slot , so that the catch engages . caution if using a thin tool to press the sim card in , use the tool as shown .
destroy the sd card by cutting the card in half through the center , and then cut each piece into half , resulting in 4 pieces . caution it is mandatory to destroy the sd card to protect user data .
locate the connectivity board into the car computer aperture . note use the top cover and car computer frame for initial guidance .
release the clip , disconnect the front drive unit inverter inlet hose from the powetrain return hose , and then immediately plug both fittings . figure 9 . heat pump model 3 figure 10 . model 3
release the clips that attach the subframe electrical harness to the bottom and top of the rear subframe , and then remove the electrical harness from the rear subframe . figure 2 . top view of the rear subframe figure 3 . bottom view of the rear subframe
disconnect the air supply from the rear subframe lifting tool .
position the front subframe to the vehicle for installation .
install the front subframe assembly into the vehicle . see # guid83551d07380045d2a4e0b9da7d32a35f .
perform step 2 through step 4 for the rh side of the vehicle if necessary .
install the bolt that attaches the brake rotor to the hub . 5 nm
remove cabin intake upper duct assembly note 4x clips , heat pump vehicles have 3x clips
place absorbent material below the car computer coolant hose connections to collect any spilled coolant .
disconnect the cabin temperature sensor connector , and then remove the service panel from the vehicle .
use the tweezers to remove the sim card from the car computer .
install the car computer connectivity board . see connectivity board car computer .
use tweezers to carefully install the new micro sd card into the computer with the gold pads up and facing away from the bulkhead . note make sure that the micro sd card is fully seated in the slot .
use plastic tweezers to install the new sd card into the computer with the gold pads up and facing away from the bulkhead .
carefully press the front face of the connectivity board into the car computer .
model 3 release the clip that attaches the front drive unit inverter inlet hose to the body .
with an assistant , release the straps , and then remove the rear subframe from the subframe lifting tool .
move the rear subframe and rear subframe lifting tool away from the vehicle .
adjust the front camber and caster . see adjust front camber and caster .
perform service redeploy . see firmware redeploy .
remove fresh air intake assembly note 2x studs , maneuver between cowl and frunk
release the clips on the coolant hoses connected to the car computer , and then disconnect the coolant hoses from the car computer .
move the lh seat backward .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the touchscreen to the instrument panel , and then slide the touchscreen toward the rear of the vehicle to remove it . note the vehicle may be equipped with either torx t30 or hex 10mm bolts . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t30 socket or 10 mm socket ¼ in std ratchet 4 in extension
install the passenger footwell cover . see cover footwell passenger .
confirm that the connectivity board is fully inserted ; slide the connectivity board about 80 % inward , and then slightly press the double fakra connector until the connectivity board is fully seated . note the lte cassette must be subflush of the car computer frame before continuing to the next step .
release the clip , disconnect the front drive unit heat exchanger to superbottle/ supermanifold hose from the front drive unit heat exchanger , and then immediately plug both fittings . figure 11 . heat pump model 3 figure 12 . model 3
with an assistant , install the new rear subframe onto the subframe lifting tool , and then attach the straps .
position the subframe lifting tool and rear subframe underneath the vehicle .
with an assistant , raise the subframe lifting tool until the front subframe and body meet .
if the front camber and caster are within specification and do not require adjustment , adjust the front toe . see adjust front toe .
using toolbox , type epas in the search filed , click on pingtp_epas3p , and then select run .
open rh front door
plug the female fittings of the coolant hoses .
remove the screws that attach the center display housing to the touchscreen , and then remove the housing from the touchscreen . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t30 socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 2 in extension
install the bolt that attaches the connectivity board to the car computer . 1 nm
move the coolant drain collector out from underneath the vehicle .
install the clips that attach the electrical harness to the rear subframe . figure 4 . top view of the rear subframe figure 5 . bottom view of the rear subframe
connect the air line to the subframe lifting tool .
handtighten the larger bolts that attach the rear portion of the front subframe to the body .
tighten the lh rear axle nut . 245 nm
using toolbox , type epas in the search filed , click on pingtp_epas3s , and then select run .
move rh front seat backward
connect the computer purge drain adapter to the left car computer coolant fitting , and then fasten the clip .
remove the lh lower apillar trim . see trim apillar lower lh .
disconnect the touchscreen electrical connector , and then remove the touchscreen and center display housing from the vehicle .
connect the electrical connector to the connectivity board .
heat pump model 3 pull the red tab to unlock , then pull the red tab again to disconnect the electrical harness from the lv logic connectors below the steering gear .
with an assistant , position the rear drive unit above the rear subframe , and then lower the drive unit sling tool to install the rear drive unit into the rear subframe .
with an assistant , slowly raise the rear drive unit and subframe into position . caution assist with the routing of hv harnesses and coolant hoses through components so that they are not pinched or broken .
handtighten the smaller bolts that attach the rear portion of the front subframe to the body .
mark the location of the lh fuca mount bolts by drawing a circle around each . tip : the circles provide a reference for the adjustment process .
perform a test drive to determine if alignment is recommended . note drive the vehicle in a straight line at a minimum of 25 mph , and check for excessive pull . verify the steering wheel is centered when the vehicle is driving straight . note add correction code 00040100 as needed .
using toolbox , type sccm in the search filed , click on test_sccm_x_steeringwheelangle , and then select run .
power off vehicle from center display note via controls > safety & security > vehicle power > power off , confirm power off at warning dialogue box
connect the coolant cart drain hose to the left drain adapter .
remove the lh footwell cover . see cover footwell passenger .
remove the center display housing from the touchscreen .
raise the emi shield .
install the front passenger knee airbag . see airbag knee front passenger .
heat pump model 3 release the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the front subframe .
install and handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the rear bushing of the rear drive unit to the subframe .
handtighten the new bolts that attach the rear subframe to the body . note the tightening of the bolts will be performed later in this procedure .
handtighten the bolts that attach the front portion of the front subframe to the body . note adjust the subframe lifting tool , if necessary .
slightly loosen , but do not remove , the lh fuca mount bolts .
disconnect 12v negative terminal note 1x nut , 10mm , 6 nm , ensure the vehicle is in park , climate control system is off , and vehicle is not charging before disconnecting 12v
connect the computer purge inlet adapter to the right car computer coolant fitting , and then fasten the clip .
release the clips that attach the lh center console side panel carpet to the center console , and then remove the lh center console side panel carpet .
position the center display housing onto the vehicle , and then insert the touchscreen electrical connector through the rear of the housing .
install a new screw to attach the emi shield to the bottom of the car computer . 1 nm
heat pump model 3 release the clip that piggybacks the electrical harness to the clip just released .
install and handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the rh bushing of the rear drive unit to the subframe .
remove the smaller bolts that attach the lh and rh shear plates to the body . lh shear plate bolts shown , rh similar
install the bolts that attach the lh and rh mid mount kit to the body . 50 nm figure 3 . lh shown , rh similar
adjust the front lh camber and lh caster to specifications . see wheel alignment . negative caster negative camber positive caster positive camber
disconnect first responder loop note 1x connector , release locking tab
connect the coolant cart flush hose to the right drain adapter .
remove the driver seat . see seat driver .
remove the underhood storage unit.see underhood storage unit .
disconnect 12v power . see 12v/lv power .
open all doors .
remove the clips that attach the lh front main carpet to the vehicle , and then fold the main carpet aside for access .
position the touchscreen onto the center display housing , and then connect the touchscreen electrical connector to the touchscreen .
tighten the lower lh screw that attaches the car computer to the bracket . 3.5 nm
wait 10 minutes for the connectivity module to learn its new environment .
heat pump model 3 release the red locking tab on the opposite side of the lh front rail bracket , and then disconnect the electrical harness from the lh front rail bracket connector .
install and handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh mount of the rear drive unit to the subframe .
install the lh shear plate to the rear subframe and hv battery , and then handtighten a new bolt to attach the shear plate to the subframe . note the tightening of the bolt will be performed later in this procedure .
handtighten the bolts that attach the front end carrier to the lh and rh front subframe crash can assemblies .
use a pry tool or large screwdriver to pry between the damper mounting nuts and body openings , so as to move the fuca mount inside the shock tower . moving the fuca mount out from the centerline makes positive camber . moving the fuca mount in toward the centerline makes negative camber . moving the fuca mount to the rear makes positive caster . moving the fuca mount to the front makes negative caster .
perform vehicle alignment . see four wheel alignment check .
place absorbent material below car computer coolant hose connection points to collect any spilled coolant
disconnect the 12v power . see 12v/lv power .
close the valve at the pressure regulator in the coolant cart .
place the driver seat on a clean working surface .
remove the front the bumper beam foam . see foam bumper beam front .
remove the front lh wheel arch liner . see wheel arch liner front lh .
lower all windows .
put absorbent material under the car computer coolant hoses to collect any spilled coolant .
install the screws that attach the center display housing to the touchscreen . 3 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t30 socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 2 in extension
remove the bolt that attaches the front drive unit hv harness to the front drive unit .
handtighten the smaller bolts that attach the lh shear plate to the hv battery . note the tightening of the bolts will be performed later in this procedure .
tighten the larger bolts that attach the rear portion of the front subframe to the body . 125 nm
when the front lh camber and lh caster are at the correct setting , have an assistant tighten the fuca mount bolts to hold the position . 30 nm
open and latch the lh front and rear doors .
open the lh front door and lower the lh front window .
open the lh doors and lower the lh windows .
disconnect inner coolant hose to car computer mount informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note 1x spring clip , plug hose
remove the wheel arch liner . see wheel arch liner front lh .
connect supply air to the pressure regulator .
remove the driver seat outboard side shield . see side shield outboard driver seat .
release the clips that attach the lh and rh ped pro pressure tube sensors to the front bumper beam foam , and then remove the pressure tube from the foam .
disconnect the electrical wiring harness connector from the lh front airbag sensor .
release the clips on the coolant hoses connected to the car computer , disconnect the coolant hoses from the car computer , and then install the car computer fluid port plug over the car computer coolant hose fittings .
position the touchscreen on the instrument panel , slide it toward the front of the vehicle , and then install new bolts that attach the touchscreen to the instrument panel . 16 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 4 in extension
perform a functional check of the lte service .
slide the red locking tab , raise the black handle , disconnect the front drive unit hv harness from the front drive unit inverter hv header , separate the hv harness from the casting , and then set the hv harness aside .
repeat steps 6 and 7 on the rh shear plate .
tighten the smaller bolts that attach the rear portion of the front subframe to the body . 50 nm
perform a caster sweep , center and set the steering wheel , and check the alignment .
fully lower the lh front and rear windows .
move the lh front seat to the foremost position and raise the seat fully .
move front seats fully forward .
disconnect outer coolant hose to car computer mount and remove coolant from car computer note 1x spring clip , plug hose
disconnect pyrotechnic actuator connector .
slowly open the valve at the pressure regulator and allow the coolant to drain into the waste container .
remove the driver seat inboard side shield . see side shield inboard driver seat .
install the ped pro pressure tube into the front bumper beam foam , and then fasten the clips that attach the lh and rh ped pro pressure tube sensors to the foam .
remove the front lh door trim panel . see panel door trim front lh .
remove and discard the nuts that attach the car computer to the body . figure 1 . lhd shown , rhd similar
connect the temperature sensor to the service panel . note the connector orientation is facing towards the lh side of the vehicle .
remove the bolt that attaches the front drive unit ground strap to the front drive unit .
torque the smaller bolts that attach the lh and rh shear plates to the vehicle . 35 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket 3 in extension
tighten the bolts that attach the front portion of the front subframe to the body . 72 nm
repeat step 3 through step 8 as necessary .
remove the lh instrument panel end cap . see end cap instrument panel lh .
release the lh upper bpillar trim and move it aside .
install car computer coolant plug note 1x coolant plug
remove the nuts that attach the pyrotechnic actuator to the body , and then remove the actuator from the vehicle . 6 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t30 socket ¼ in std ratchet
start a 1minute timer .
disconnect the electrical harness from the resistive occupancy sensor connector .
install the front the bumper beam foam . see foam bumper beam front .
disconnect the electrical connector from the front door airbag sensor .
in the vehicle interior , put absorbent material beneath the car computer to collect any spilled coolant .
install the clips and tabs that attach the service panel to the instrument panel .
tighten the bolts and nuts that attach the rear bushing , rh bushing , and lh mount of the rear drive unit to the rear subframe . 70 nm
torque the large bolts that attach the lh and rh shear plates to the vehicle , and then mark them with a paint pen after torquing . 130 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 21 mm socket 6 in extension
tighten the bolts and nuts that attach the lh and rh crash can brackets to the front subframe . 60 nm figure 4 . lh shown , rh similar
when the front lh camber and lh caster are correct , tighten the larger lh fuca mount bolts . 62 nm
remove the bolts that attach the seat belt webbing guide to the bpillar , and then remove the guide from the bpillar . 3.5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 8 mm socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench
remove nuts securing car computer to bulkhead note 4x nyloc nuts , 13mm , 7.1 nm , if necessary keep two nuts threaded to hold car computer in place , discard nuts after removal
install the nuts that attache the pyrotechnic actuator to the body , and then install the actuator to the vehicle . 6 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t30 socket ¼ in std ratchet
after 1 minute , close the valve at the pressure regulator .
release the clip that attaches the resistive occupancy sensor to the seat underside , and then separate the sensor from the seat underside .
install the underhood storage unit.see underhood storage unit .
twist the tabs counterclockwise and remove the front door airbag sensor from the closeout panel .
remove the lower left bolt and nut that attach the ground cable to the car computer .
loosen , but do not remove , the bolt that attaches the front drive unit ground strap to the hv battery , and then set the ground strap aside .
tighten the bolts that attach the lh and rh rear subframe to the body , and then mark them with a paint pen after torquing . 165 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 21 mm socket 6 in extension
tighten the bolts that attach the front end carrier to the lh and rh front subframe crash can assemblies . 16 nm figure 5 . lh shown , rh similar
tighten the smaller lh fuca mount bolts . 35 nm
install the bolts that attach the seat belt webbing guide to the bpillar , and then remove the guide from the bpillar . 3.5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 8 mm socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench
remove the lh side rail trim . see trim side rail lh .
remove clips securing rh footwell assembly note 4x push clips
connect pyrotechnic actuator connector .
disconnect supply air from the pressure regulator .
release the clips that attach the seat cushion foam to the seat cushion frame at the front , inboard , and outboard sides . tip : use an angled pick to pull the retaining clips down and away from the seat frame . figure 1 . other components hidden for clarity
put on an antistatic wrist strap , and connect the strap to a body ground point .
position the subframe lifting tool under , and up to the front subframe .
fasten the fir tree clips that attach the coolant hoses to the lh and rh shear plates . lh shear plate shown , rh shear plate similar
lower the subframe lifting tool from the vehicle .
perform step 3 through step 11 for the rh side of the vehicle if necessary .
move the driver seat fully forward .
fasten the lh upper bpillar trim .
disconnect rh foot well assembly connectors and remove from vehicle note 2x electrical connectors
remove the 2nd row lh seat back hinge bracket . see bracket hinge seat back 2nd row lh .
install the wheel arch liner . see wheel arch liner front lh .
disconnect the coolant cart flush hose from the right drain adapter .
lift the front of the driver seat cushion foam trim , releasing clips andif presentvelcro strips , until the resistive occupancy sensor is exposed . figure 2 . front seat cushion with clips and velcro figure 3 . front seat cushion with clips
disconnect the electrical wiring harness connector from the center front airbag sensor .
slide the car computer inwards to have better access to the harness clips and electrical connectors of the car computer .
with the help of an assistant , align the guide pins of the subframe lifting tool with the datums in the front subframe and front drive unit .
fasten the clip that attaches the rear drive unit ground harness to the rear subframe .
release the straps and lower the subframe lifting tool from the vehicle .
disconnect the air line from the subframe lifting tool , and then remove the subframe lifting tool from the vehicle .
adjust the front toe . see adjust front toe .
release the connector lock , and then disconnect the electrical connector from the pretensioner .
move lh front seat to original position .
remove the lh rear cpillar trim . see trim cpillar rear lh .
remove bolts securing passenger knee air bag onto vehicle note 4x patch bolts , t30 , 8 nm , discard after removal , 2x screws , t20 , 2 nm , 1x push clip , newer vehicles have 4x e10 patch bolts
remove the bolt that attaches the armrest assembly to the seat back . 15 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t45 socket 3 in extension
connect the 12v power . see 12v/lv power .
release the clip and disconnect the computer purge inlet adapter from the right car computer coolant fitting .
while wearing cutresistant gloves , carefully use a razor blade to separate the resistive occupancy sensor from the driver seat cushion foam . warning always wear cutresistant gloves when using cutting tools . caution take care not to damage the sensor harness , seat trim , or other surrounding components with the razor blade . caution take care to remove as little foam as possible .
remove the bolt that attaches the center front airbag sensor to the body , and then remove the sensor from the body . 8 nm
release the clips that attach the electrical harnesses to the car computer . figure 2 . lhd shown , rhd similar
fully secure the straps that attach the front subframe to the subframe lifting tool .
install the lh lower aft link to the rear subframe , and then install and handtighten the nut and bolt that attach the lh lower aft link to the rear subframe .
disconnect the air line from the subframe lifting tool , and then remove the tool from underneath the vehicle .
handtighten the rh front lower lateral link .
if the front toe is within specification and does not require adjustment , complete the alignment . see complete the alignment .
remove the bolt that attaches the charge port harness bracket to the body , and then move the charge port harness away from the cpillar . 10 nm
disconnect 12v power . see 12v/lv power . caution after disconnecting 12v power , make sure at least 2 minutes have elapsed before disconnecting the bpillar accelerometer .
remove the bolt that attaches the pretensioner to the seat track . 40 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t50 socket 3/8 in std ratchet 3/8 in torque wrench 3 in extension note the bolt is attached to the pretensioner with a metal clip . the pretensioner and bolt must be replaced as an assembly .
close the lh doors and raise the lh windows .
remove and discard the bolt that attaches the 2nd row lh lower seat belt anchor to the body . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm socket 3 in extension
remove passenger knee air bag from vehicle note 1x connector , release locking tab , connector release may vary
pull the rh side of the armrest assembly forward , slide the armrest assembly towards the rh side of the seat , and then remove the armrest assembly from the seat back .
disconnect the coolant cart drain hose from the left drain adapter .
from the underside of the cushion , carefully route the resistive occupancy sensor harness up through the top of the cushion , and then remove the sensor from the cushion . caution while removing the harness , take care not to damage the foam .
disconnect the electrical harness connectors from the car computer , and then remove the car computer from the vehicle . caution avoid spilling coolant on the electrical connectors . figure 3 . lhd shown , rhd similar
in toolbox , type `` display '' in the search field . note make sure `` actions '' is selected , if not already .
remove the bolts that attach the front end carrier to the lh and rh front subframe crash cans .
remove the halfshaft plug from the gearbox , and then install the lh halfshaft to the rear drive unit . caution when installing the halfshaft to the drive unit : take care not to damage or displace the oil seals . make sure that the opening of the snap rings are facing towards the bottom of the drive unit . carefully push the halfshaft into the drive unit until there is an audible `` click '' from the halfshaft stub contacting the pinion shaft . there will be a slight pulling sensation on the halfshaft as the halfshaft circlip locks into place . pull on the inner halfshaft cup to confirm that the circlip is locked into place . if the halfshaft detaches from the drive unit then reinstall the halfshaft and then test that it is fully seated . set the lh halfshaft temporarily on the lower aft link .
tighten the bolt and nut that attach the rh front spring and damper assembly to the lower control arm .. 106 nm
loosen the jam nut on the lh inner tie rod .
disconnect the electrical harness from the airbag sensor connector .
remove the 1st row outboard lap pretensioner from the seat track .
release the clips that attach the bezel to the lh rear upper cpillar trim , and then slide the bezel off the seat belt .
perform the following steps for vehicles with earlier versions of the car computer that have a larger car computer visor : note the larger visor interferes with the airbag connectors . disconnect the electrical connectors for the front passenger airbag . remove and discard the patch bolts that attach the front passenger airbag to the cross car beam . 8 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t30 socket or external torx e10 figure 1 . figure a figure 2 . figure b
release the rh and lh center headrest clips simultaneously , and then pull the headrest upwards to remove it . note use a pocket screwdriver to release the lh headrest clip .
release the clip and disconnect the computer purge drain adapter from the left car computer coolant fitting .
position the resistive occupancy sensor on top of the driver seat cushion foam , and then route the sensor harness through the harness opening in the foam . caution while installing the harness , take care not to damage the foam . figure 4 . resistive occupancy sensor positioned on top of the front seat cushion foam figure 5 . resistive occupancy sensor harness routed through the bottom of the front seat cushion foam
click the play button next to `` pingbash_display '' , and then select run .
pull the red locking tab , and then disconnect the subframe electrical harness from the front drive unit motor resolver connector .
with an assistant , install the halfshaft into the lh hub and knuckle assembly . note make sure that the splines for the halfshaft line up .
with an assistant , handtighten the bolts that attach the rh front lower lateral link to the front subframe . note use a punch tool to align the fasteners , if necessary .
rotate the lh inner tie rod to adjust the front lh toe to specifications . see wheel alignment . to add positive toe in , move the tie rod end in toward the centerline . to add negative toe out , move the tie rod end out from the centerline .
remove the 2nd row seat cushion . see seat cushion lower 2nd row .
remove the bolt that attaches the airbag sensor to the cpillar , and then remove the sensor from the vehicle . 8 nm
remove the inboard side shield . see side shield inboard driver seat .
open both lh doors and lower both lh windows .
remove the lh lower cpillar trim . see guiddb75bfbb980c4767844ddd5fc4aee1f0.html .
on the touchscreen , touch controls , and then touch the software tab to display the vehicle firmware version .
install the new pretensioner and bolt assembly to the seat track , and then tighten the bolt that attaches the pretensioner to the seat track . 40 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t50 socket 3/8 in std ratchet 3/8 in torque wrench 3 in extension note align the pretensioner guide pin to the seat track .
guide the seat belt through the lh rear upper cpillar trim , and the remove the trim from the vehicle .
disconnect glove box usb cable from car computer note 1x connector , depress latch on top of usb cable to release internal latches , then release from car computer
remove the headrest clips from the seat . note use a wedge tool to lift up the guide locks from the seat .
install the car computer fluid port plug over the car computer coolant fittings .
peel the protective backing off of the resistive occupancy sensor , exposing the adhesive , and then install the sensor on top of the foam . note align the sensor with the indentations on the foam .
move the car computer into position , and then connect the electrical harness connectors to the car computer . caution avoid spilling coolant on the electrical connectors . figure 4 . lhd shown , rhd similar
in toolbox , type `` gateway '' in the search field .
remove the bolt that attaches the rh motor mount to the rh motor mount bracket .
with an assistant , install and handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh upper fore link to the rear subframe .
handtighten the bolt and nut that attaches the rh front lower compliance link to the front subframe .
when the front lh toe is correct , tighten the jam nut on the lh inner tie rod . 80 nm
disconnect the lh rear seat belt buckle electrical connector .
release the clips that attach the lh upper bpillar trim to the vehicle , and then set the trim aside . note pull the bottom of the lh upper bpillar trim towards the inside of the vehicle to release the bottom clips , and then pull the top of the trim to release the remaining upper clips . note the lh upper bpillar trim will still be attached to the seatbelt .
connect the pretensioner electrical connector .
d isconnect the electrical connector from the 2nd row lh seat belt retractor .
remove clip securing passenger footwell air duct and rotate for access note 1x push clip , with glovebox installed there is not sufficient room to fully remove passenger footwell duct
release the clips , and then remove the trim from the base where the cup holders are located . note press the clips to release them from the seat frame
remove and discard the nuts that attach the car computer to the body .
pull the driver seat cushion foam trim over the foam , installing all clips andif presentvelcro strips . figure 6 . front seat cushion with clips and velcro figure 7 . front seat cushion with clips
install the clips that attach the electrical harnesses to the car computer . figure 5 . lhd shown , rhd similar
remove the bolt that attaches the lh motor mount to the lh motor mount bracket .
with an assistant , install and handtighten the nut and bolt that attach the lh toe link to the rear subframe .
with an assistant , install the bolt and nut that attach the rh front lower compliance link to the front subframe . 115 nm 115 nm
remove the driver air bag . see airbag driver .
remove the driver seat backrest foam . see foam backrest driver seat .
release the plastic bracket that attaches the female side of the electrical connector to the body studs .
remove the lh lower bpillar trim . see trim bpillar lower lh .
install the driver seat outboard side shield . see side shield outboard driver seat .
remove and discard the bolt that attaches the 2nd row lh seat belt retractor to the body , and then remove the retractor from the vehicle . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket 3 in extension
release ground strap from car computer note 1x bolt , t25 , 1x nut , 8mm , 3.5 nm , nut located on backside , discard nut after removal
remove the 2nd row armrest closeout . see closeout armrest 2nd row .
position the resistive occupancy sensor harness on the support bracket , and then install the clip that attaches the harness to the bracket .
slide the car computer into position on the bulkhead .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the front subframe lh and rh mid mounts to the body .
with an assistant , install and handtighten the nut and bolt that attach the lh upper aft link to the rear subframe .
tighten the bolts that attach the rh front lower lateral link to the front subframe . 115 nm
complete the alignment . see complete the alignment .
insert the seat belt release key into the bottom of the seatbelt pretensioner coupling to release the seatbelt from the pretensioner .
remove and discard the patched bolt that attaches the lh 2nd row buckle to the vehicle . 40 nm tip : if the bolt is hard to remove , use an inductive heating tool to melt the adhesive patch material . position the inductive heating tool coil around the bolt , and then heat the bolt for 20 seconds . allow the bolt to cool down for 2 minutes , and then remove and discard the bolt . the inductive heater coil , bolt , and adjacent areas will be extremely hot . warning persons that have a pacemaker or any other kind of electronic or metal surgical implant must stay at least 1 m away from the inductive heater while it is in use . warning remove all metallic items from pockets before using the inductive heater . warning ensure that there is a properlymaintained fire extinguisher in the work area before using the inductive heater . warning use the inductive heater in a wellventilated area . callout description 1 lh 2nd row buckle on top 2 center 2nd row seatbelt anchor in the middle 3 lh inner penthouse rail at the bottom
disconnect the electrical connector from the bpillar accelerometer . note if the connector has a red locking tab , pull the tab away from the connector , and then disconnect the connector .
install the 2nd row lh seat belt retractor to the body , and then install a new bolt to attach the retractor to the body . 30 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket 3 in extension
release the clips that attach the 2nd row seat back bezel to the seat back , and then remove the bezel from the seat back .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the front of the front subframe to the body .
with an assistant , install and handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh lower fore link to the rear subframe .
install the lh front lower lateral link , and then handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh front spring and damper assembly to the lower control arm . 106 nm 106 nm
print the vehicle summary and verify that the alignment parameters are within specifications . see wheel alignment . note repeat the adjustment for any parameter that is not within specification . adjust rear camber adjust rear toe adjust front camber and caster adjust front toe
position the center 2nd row seatbelt anchor underneath the lh 2nd row buckle , and then install a new patched bolt that attaches the lh 2nd row buckle to the vehicle . 40 nm caution the center 2nd row seatbelt anchor must be underneath the lh 2nd row buckle , on top of the lh inner penthouse rail , and the guide pin aligned before the new patch bolt is installed . callout description 1 lh 2nd row buckle on top 2 center 2nd row seatbelt anchor in the middle 3 lh inner penthouse rail at the bottom
remove the bolt that attaches the bpillar accelerometer to the body , and then remove the accelerometer from the vehicle . 8 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket ¼ in std ratchet
remove and discard the smaller bolts that attach the rear of the front subframe to the body .
with an assistant , install and handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh lower aft link to the knuckle .
verify that the hv battery rear drive unit connector is fully seated , and compare both sides of the connector that it is properly secured in place . note an improperly seated connector might lead to connector damage and rear drive unit problems later on .
with an assistant , handtighten the bolts that attach the lh front lower lateral link to the front subframe . note use a punch tool to align the fasteners .
install the plastic bracket that attaches the female side of the electrical connector to the body studs .
remove and discard the larger bolts that attach the rear of the front subframe to the body .
with an assistant , install and handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh rear damper to the lower aft link .
install the nuts that attach the rear drive unit hv electrical harness bracket to the hv battery . 10 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 4 in extension note the number of fasteners might vary on newer vehicles .
install the lh front lower compliance link to the front subframe . with an assistant , install the bolt and nut that attach the lh front lower compliance link to the front subframe . 115 nm
lower the alignment rack to a working height and lock .
connect the lh rear seat belt buckle electrical connector .
with the help of an assistant , carefully lower the front subframe , and move the subframe lifting tool out from under the vehicle . note watch for components that might get caught while lowering the subframe .
tighten the bolts that attach the lh front lower lateral link to the front subframe . 115 nm
with the help of an assistant , move the subframe lifting tool under the vehicle , and then raise the front subframe into position .
as the subframe is raised , guide the motor mount bushings into the motor mount isolators , and make sure that the struts straddle the axles and lateral links .
release the clips that attach the lh upper bpillar trim to the vehicle . tip : release the clips at the bottom of the lh upper bpillar trim first , and then release the clips at the top of the trim .
install and handtighten new larger bolts that attach the rear of the front subframe to the body .
slide the seatbelt out through the hole in the lh upper bpillar trim , and then set the trim aside .
install and handtighten new smaller bolts that attach the rear of the front subframe to the body .
install and handtighten new bolts that attach the front of the front subframe to the body .
remove and discard the patchbolt that attaches the upper dring to the top loop . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t45 socket 3/8 in std ratchet 3/8 in torque wrench 3 in extension
install and handtighten new bolts that attach the front subframe lh and rh mid mounts to the body .
install and handtighten the bolts that attach the front end carrier to the lh and rh front subframe crash cans .
torque the larger bolts that attach the rear of the front subframe to the body . 125 nm
torque the smaller bolts that attach the rear of the front subframe to the body . 50 nm
torque the bolts that attach the front of the front subframe to the body . 72 nm
torque the bolts that attach the front subframe lh and rh mid mounts to the body . 50 nm
torque the bolts that attach the front end carrier to the lh and rh front subframe crash cans . 16 nm
install the bolt that attaches the rh motor mount to the rh motor mount bracket . 105 nm note it might be necessary to adjust the subframe jig to help align the bolt into the mount .
disconnect the high pressure pt sensor electrical connector .
release the connector locks , and then disconnect the electrical connectors leading up to the desired exv coil . follow the disconnect order in the example image . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector . note the disconnect order is for ease of access . figure 1 . disconnect order
release the connector lock , and then disconnect exv electrical connector for the desired exv coil . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector . figure 2 . evap exv shown
move the exv coil harness to the side .
release the locking tab at the bottom of the exv coil , and then remove the coil from the expansion valve .
install the exv coil onto the expansion valve . note slide the coil seal onto the expansion valve . do not lubricate the coil seal . properly align the expansion valve coil locking tab to the supermanifold . slide the expansion valve coil over the coil seal . perform a push pull push test on the expansion valve coil to ensure the coils is properly latched .
position the exv coil harness onto the supermanifold .
connect the exv electrical connector , and then engage the connector lock .
connect the electrical connectors that were disconnected during removal , and then engage the connector locks .
connect the high pressure pt sensor electrical connector , and then engage the connector lock .
raise the lh front window and close the lh front door .
disconnect the rh and center seat buckle electrical connectors .
move the seat fully forward .
move the lh front seat fully forward .
record the vehicle firmware version .
click the play button next to `` proc_ice_x_gatewayreboot '' , and then select run . note this will reboot the gateway .
open the all doors and fully lower all windows .
remove the ip carrier . see ip carrier .
release the bracket that attaches the female side of the electrical connectors to the body studs .
disconnect the electrical connector from the lh 1st row buckle .
remove and discard the patch bolts that attach the rear of the driver seat to the body . caution use only the torx plus t45 bit to remove the seat bolts . note use of the following tool is recommended : torx plus t45 socket 3/8 in std flex head ratchet 3/8 in flex head torque wrench
remove the passenger footwell cover . see cover footwell passenger
cover the entire driverfacing side of the airbag with protective tape .
pull the seat back cover away from the foam assembly , and then remove the side airbag from the seat .
use a flat head screwdriver to apply pressure along the rear edge of the airbag assembly , and while doing so , flex the knee airbag cover surround to release each of the 5 airbag tabs from the cover surround .
apply pressure along the front edge of the airbag assembly , and while doing so , flex the ip passenger airbag surround to release each of the 6 airbag tabs from the ip carrier surround .
apply pressure along the front edge of the airbag assembly , and while doing so , flex the ip passenger airbag surround to release each of the 6 airbag tabs from the ip carrier surround . tip : use a large flathead screwdriver to help release the tabs .
remove and discard the bolt , and then remove the rh and center seat buckles together . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm socket 3 in extension note if the bolt is hard to remove , use an inductive heating tool to melt the adhesive patch material . position the inductive heating tool coil around the bolt , and then heat the bolt for 20 seconds . allow the bolt to cool down for 2 minutes , and then remove and discard the bolt .
release the harness clip from the seat bottom frame .
move the seat fully rearward .
set the lh upper bpillar trim aside .
release the locking tabs , and then disconnect the electrical harness from the restraint control module . warning make sure 12v power has been disconnected for at least 2 minutes before disconnecting the electrical harness from the restraint control module . failure to do so can result in unintended safety system behaviors .
disconnect connectors on front side of car computer note 3x connectors , if equipped , release locking tab , then remove connector body
remove the front floor mat .
connect the resistive occupancy sensor connector to the electrical harness .
install the bolt and nut that attach the ground cable to the car computer .
place the driver air bag on a clean working surface .
pivot the airbag up , unhook the 6 tabs at the front of the airbag from the cover surround , and then remove the airbag from the cover . caution properly dispose of the airbag .
pivot the airbag up , unhook the 7 tabs at the rear of the airbag from the ip carrier surround , and then remove the airbag from the ip carrier .
install new bolt that attaches the rh and center seat buckles to the body . 40 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm socket 3 in extension note make sure that the guide pin is aligned .
remove and discard the patchbolt that attaches the buckle to the seat track , and then remove the buckle . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx plus t45 socket 3/8 in std ratchet 3/8 in torque wrench 3 in extension
remove and discard the patch bolts that attach the front of the driver seat to the body . caution use only the torx plus t45 bit to remove the seat bolts . note use of the following tool is recommended : torx plus t45 socket 3/8 in std flex head ratchet 3/8 in flex head torque wrench
remove and discard the patchbolt that attaches the upper dring to the bpillar . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t45 socket 3/8 in std ratchet 3/8 in flex head torque wrench 3 in extension
remove and discard the nuts that attach the restraint control module to the body , and then remove the module from the vehicle . note use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench
connect the electrical connector to the 2nd row lh seat belt retractor .
release harness connectors on lh side of car computer note 10x connectors , if equipped , release locking tab , then remove connector body
release the clips that attach the escutcheon to the seat back , and then remove the escutcheon from the seat back .
remove the rh lower apillar trim . see trim apillar lower lh .
install the clips that attach the seat cushion foam to the seat cushion frame at the front , inboard , and outboard sides . figure 8 . other assemblies hidden for clarity
install new nuts that attach the car computer to the body . figure 6 . lhd shown , rhd similar
release the locking tabs that attach the driver airbag harness to the airbag .
insert the 7 tabs of the rear of the airbag into the matching openings of the ip carrier surround .
insert two small flatblade screwdrivers into the holes at the back of the steering wheel just far enough to compress the spring clip simultaneously , and then remove the driver airbag from the steering wheel . caution to avoid damaging the airbag connector and wiring , do not insert the screwdrivers too far into the holes .
install the bracket that attaches the female side of the connectors to the body studs .
install the patchbolt that comes with the new seat belt buckle to attach the buckle to the seat track . 40 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx plus t45 socket 3/8 in std ratchet 3/8 in torque wrench 3 in extension
tilt the seat onto its back to access the underside of the seat cushion .
remove the bolt that attaches the adjustable top loop to the bpillar . note the patchbolt is permanently attached to the adjustable top loop . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t47 socket 3/8 in std ratchet 3/8 in flex head torque wrench
install the restraint control module to the body , and then install new nuts to attach the module to the body . 8 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench
install the bezel onto the seat belt , and then attach the clips to the lh rear upper cpillar trim .
release harness guide clip note 1x clip , pinch release tabs with needle nose pliers
remove the 2nd row seat soft back trim and foam from the seat back frame . note release the soft back trim from the bottom sides , and then release the foam from the seat back frame .
remove the rh center console side panel carpet . see side panel center console lh .
install the driver seat inboard side shield . see side shield inboard driver seat .
remove the car computer fluid port plug from the car computer coolant hose fittings , and then connect the coolant hoses to the car computer . figure 7 . lhd shown , rhd similar
disconnect the electrical harness connectors from the driver airbag .
remove the bolts that attach the front passenger knee airbag to the instrument panel . 2 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t20 socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 2 in extension
pivot the airbag into the ip carrier until the 6 tabs at the front of the airbag lock into place .
disconnect the driver airbag electrical connector from the steering wheel , and then remove the airbag from the vehicle .
connect the rh and center seat buckle electrical connectors .
connect the electrical connector from the lh 1st row buckle .
release the clip that attaches the seat belt reminder to the seat frame .
pull the top of the adjustable top loop away from the bpillar , and then slide upwards to remove the adjustable top loop from the vehicle .
connect the electrical harness to the restraint control module connectors .
install a new bolt that attaches the 2nd row lh lower seat belt anchor to the body . 30 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm socket 3 in extension
place absorbent material beneath car computer to catch any spilled coolant
release the clips and push clip that attach the 2nd row center seat back escutcheon support to the seat back , and then remove the escutcheon support from the seat back .
remove the clip s that attach the front rh carpet to the body , and then fold the front rh carpet rearwards .
remove absorbent materials from below car computer coolant hose connection points and from beneath the car computer .
connect the driver airbag harness connectors to the driver airbag , and then install the locking tabs . note the 3 connectors are color coded . match the color on the harness connector to the same color connector on the airbag .
while supporting the front passenger knee airbag , remove and discard the bolts that attach the front passenger knee airbag to the instrument panel . 8 nm or 8 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : for torx t20 , use : torx t20 socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 2 in extension for torx e10 , use : external torx e10 ¼ in std ratchet wiha torquevarios 0.8 nm 2.0 nm screwdriver wiha ¼ in bit holder adapter wiha torque setter ¼ in to 3/8 in adapter
remove the t20 bolts that attach the driver knee airbag to the vehicle . 2 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t20 socket ¼ in std ratchet 4 in extension wiha torquevarios 0.8 nm 2.0 nm screwdriver wiha torque setter ¼ in to 3/8 in adapter
install the ip carrier . see ip carrier .
make sure that the lower horn bracket is properly secured to the steering wheel .
install the 2nd row seat cushion . see seat cushion lower 2nd row .
release the retaining tabs that attach the seat belt reminder box clip to the seat belt reminder . remove the seat belt reminder box clip from the vehicle . caution do not disconnect the elecrical connector .
position the adjustable top loop on the bpillar , and then install the new patchbolt that attaches the adjustable top loop to the bpillar . 20 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t47 socket 3/8 in std ratchet 3/8 in flex head torque wrench
install the lh rear cpillar trim . see trim cpillar rear lh .
slide car computer inward to allow access to connectors and harness clips
release the clips that attach the trim bolt cover to the seat back frame , and then remove the cover from the seat back .
remove the nuts that attach the rh carpet locator bracket to the body , and then remove the bracket from the vehicle . 2.5 nm
install the driver seat . see seat driver .
fold the lh front main carpet back into position , and then install the push clips that attach the carpet to the vehicle .
remove the hose plugs , connect the rear drive unit outlet hose to the powertrain return hose , and then fasten the clip . caution perform a pushpull test to verify that the hose is fully seated .
lower the vehicle partially .
remove the protective tape from the airbag .
disconnect the electrical connector from the front passenger knee airbag .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the driver knee airbag to the instrument panel . 8 nm or 8 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t30 socket ¼ in std ratchet or external torx e10 3/8 in std ratchet 3 in extension ¼ in torque wrench ¼ in to 3/8 in adapter
connect the driver airbag electrical connector to the steering wheel . caution make sure the harness does not get caught between the airbag and the horn .
raise all windows and close all doors
raise the seat to its highest position while inspecting the seat belt buckle harness with a flashlight to make sure its not catching on anything .
move the seat belt reminder box clip in place and then secure the retaining tabs that attach the seat belt reminder box clip to the seat belt reminder .
install the new patchbolt that attaches the upper dring to the bpillar . 20 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t45 socket 3/8 in std ratchet 3/8 in flex head torque wrench 3 in extension
install the center console . see center console .
remove car computer visor informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note 4x clips
remove and discard the bolt that attaches the center 2nd row seat belt to the seat back frame , and then remove the seat belt from the seat back frame . 45 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm deep socket 13 mm socket
if equipped , remove the knee airbag . see airbag knee front passenger .
install the lh footwell cover . see cover footwell passenger .
put the front stabilizer bar onto the rh front stabilizer bar link .
remove the front passenger knee airbag and closeout trim panel as an assembly from the vehicle .
release the clip that attaches the driver knee airbag electrical harness to the lower instrument panel .
fully press the driver airbag into the steering wheel so that the spring clip attaches the airbag to the steering wheel .
make sure the seat belt buckle harness is routed in front of the datum and not around the datum .
secure the clip that attaches the seat belt reminder to the seat frame .
lower the adjustable top loop to align it with the lh upper bpillar trim .
install the lh and rh center console side panel carpets . see side panel center console lh .
install the lh side rail trim . see trim side rail lh .
release harness clips from top of car computer note 2x clips
place absorbent material beneath the car computer to catch any spilled coolant .
install the lh lower apillar trim . see trim apillar lower lh .
connect the subframe electrical harness to the lh rear abs wheel speed sensor connector , and then fasten the clip that attaches the sensor connector to the subframe .
remove the plugs from the male and female fittings , connect the rear drive unit inverter inlet hose to the lh side of the hv battery , and then fasten the clip . caution perform a pushpull test to verify that the hose is fully seated .
install new nut that attach the front stabilizer bar to the rh front stabilizer bar link . 98 nm
unhook the tabs that attach the front passenger knee airbag to the closeout trim panel , and then remove the airbag from the panel .
disconnect the wiring harness connector from the driver knee airbag , and then remove the airbag from the vehicle .
with the seat still at its highest position , adjust and secure the seat belt buckle harness clip along the inner seat rail and verify the harness is extended as far forward as possible to eliminate slack on the back side of the clip .
tilt the seat forward so that it is in place and the holes in the seat rails are aligned with the holes in the body . caution avoid damaging the carpet or trim panels when tilting the seat forward .
insert the top portion of the lh upper bpillar trim under the headliner to align the clips , and then press the bottom of the trim to fully engage all of the clips . note make sure the rubber door seals completely overlap the trim .
release connectors from rh side of car computer and remove from vehicle note 7x connectors
move the car computer inwards to allow better access to the clips and electrical connectors of the car computer .
repeat step 14 through step 26 for the rh side of the rear subframe .
put the front stabilizer bar onto the lh front stabilizer bar link .
unlatch the driver 's door , shift into park , and remove the steering wheel bubble level .
make sure that the clips on the rear edge of the driver knee airbag cover engage the ip carrier .
fully raise and lower the seat , inspecting the seat belt buckle harness with a flashlight to make sure its not catching on anything .
install new patch bolts to attach the front of the seat to the body . 33.5 nm caution use only the torx plus t45 bit to torque the seat bolts .
park the vehicle on a level surface .
place car computer into vehicle and connect all connectors informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note 21x connectors , use caution not to spill any coolant . leave coolant plug on car computer till coolant hoses are ready to be installed
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the car computer .
install the lh and rh coil springs onto the rear lower aft links .
install new nut that attaches the front stabilizer bar to the lh front stabilizer bar link . 98 nm
unbuckle the seat belts and remove the ballast bags from the vehicle .
install the inboard side shield . see side shield inboard driver seat .
perform the appropriate firmware operation based on the installed firmware version that was determined in step 1 of the removal procedure : if the vehicle firmware version is 2019.16 or newer , reinstall the vehicle firmware . see software reinstall . if the vehicle firmware version is older than 2019.16 , update the vehicle firmware . see firmware update .
secure harness to car computer note 2x clips
disconnect the electrical harness connectors from the car computer , and then remove the computer from the vehicle . caution avoid spilling coolant on the electrical connectors . caution take care not to damage the passenger airbag harness and connectors during removal .
install the rear stabilizer bar . see stabilizer bar rear .
put the lh tie rod end onto the knuckle .
remove the seat covers from the seats .
remove the bolts that attach the seat belt webbing guide to the bpillar , and then remove the guide from the bpillar . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 8 mm socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench
install new patch bolts to attach the rear of the seat to the body . 33.5 nm caution use only the torx plus t45 bit to torque the seat bolts .
install car computer visor onto car computer note 4x clips , make sure all clips are fully seated and visor is properly aligned
bring the car computer to where it installs into the vehicle , and then connect the electrical harness connectors to the car computer . caution avoid spilling coolant on the electrical connectors . caution take care not to damage the passenger airbag harness and connectors during installation .
install the ground strap for the rear drive unit . 10 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm 12point deep socket note reinstall the washer if the vehicle had this washer during removal . note make sure that the angle of the ground strap provides enough clearance between the ground strap wire and the abs wheel speed sensor wiring harness .
install new nut that attaches the lh tie rod end to the knuckle . 180 nm
disconnect the electrical harness from the seat belt retractor connectors .
remove the cooling fan module . see module cooling fan
remove the underhood storage unit . see underhood storage unit
close all doors and raise all windows .
in toolbox , run the `` proc_rcm_x_servicetasks '' routine .
slide car computer into position on bulkhead
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the car computer .
fasten the lh subframe electrical harness barrel clip to the body .
put the rh tie rod end onto the knuckle .
remove and discard the patchbolt that attaches the seat belt retractor to the base of the bpillar . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm 12point deep socket 3/8 in std ratchet 3/8 in torque wrench
remove the headliner . see headliner .
release the locking tabs that attach the active grille shutter to the cooling fan and shroud assembly , and then remove the active grille
make sure vehicle firmware version is 2021.36 or later before continuing . see firmware update .
if alerted to aim the headlights , perform the appropriate headlight aiming procedure : caution do not return the vehicle to the customer until any alerts to aim the headlights have been addressed . headlights adjust global headlights adjust emea headlights adjust emea
connect glove box usb cable to car computer informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note 1x connector
move the car computer forward so that the mounting studs pass through the firewall .
connect the electrical connector for the lh of the 12v subframe harness . figure 1 . lh side shown , rh similar
install new nut that attaches the rh tie rod end to the knuckle . 180 nm
open lh front door
set up ac machine
remove the lh front seatbelt from the vehicle .
disconnect the electrical harness from the lh curtain airbag connector .
install the active grille shutter onto the cooling fan and shroud assembly , and then fasten the locking tabs that attach the shutter to the assembly .
disconnect the active grille shutter electrical connector .
set up the ac machine note touch time only
install nuts securing car computer to bulkhead note 4x nyloc nuts , 13mm , 7.1 nm , install new nyloc nuts
remove the absorbent material from beneath the car computer .
close the hood , doors and windows .
repeat steps 29 and 30 on the rh side of the vehicle .
remove the bolt that attaches the lh front brake rotor to the hub .
recover the a/c refrigerant . see recovery .
lower lh front window
recover the a/c refrigerant . see recovery .
recover the a/c refrigerant . see recovery . note completely recover the refrigerant before continuing this procedure .
install the lh front seatbelt into the vehicle .
remove the bolts that attach the front and center portions of the lh curtain airbag to the body . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension
set up ac machine note touch time only
install the cooling fan module . see module cooling fan
remove the bolts that attach the underhood storage unit reinforcement bracket to the cooling fan , and then slide the reinforcement bracket aside for clearance .
raise and support vehicle note ensure vehicle is not charging before lifting it off the ground
remove coolant plug from car computer
install new nuts to attach the car computer to the body . 7.1 nm
install the hub jack adapter onto the lh front hub and handtighten the lug nuts .
remove the bolt that attaches the supermanifoldtocompressor a/c line to the supermanifold . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench 6 in extension
release the locking tab , and then disconnect the electrical connector from the low pressure temperature sensor . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector .
install a new patchbolt to attach the seat belt retractor to the base of the bpillar . 40 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm 12point deep socket 3/8 in std ratchet 3/8 in torque wrench
remove the bolts that attach the rear portion of the lh curtain airbag to the body . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension
connect outer coolant hose to car computer mount note 1x spring clip , perform push , pull and push to ensure the hose is fully seated
install the rh carpet locator bracket to the body , and then install the nuts that attach the rh carpet locator bracket to the body . 2.5 nm
install the bolts that attach the lh rear damper at the top mount . 41 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm socket 3 in extension lh shown ; rh similar .
install the cowl screen panel , if removed . see panel cowl screen .
remove the supermanifoldtocompressor a/c line from the supermanifold , and then hang it on the underhood storage unit support beam using an shook . note carefully hang the line so that oil does not drip out .
remove the supermanifoldtocompressor ac line from the supermanifold , and then hang it on the underhood storage unit support beam using an shook . note carefully hang the line so that oil does not drip out .
use the p/t sensor socket to remove the low pressure temperature sensor from the supermanifold . caution use only hand tools to remove the pt sensor . impact or power tools will break the threads . caution use only the p/t sensor socket to remove the sensor . using other tools can damage the sensor . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : gen 2 p/t sensor socket , 24mm flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench 3 in extension
connect the electrical harness to the seat belt retractor connectors .
carefully release the clips that attach the lh curtain airbag to the side rail , and remove the airbag from the vehicle . warning if any clips are damaged , the airbag must be replaced . warning the airbag should always be handled by the igniter ; the igniter should never be left dangling .
connect inner coolant hose to car computer mount note 1x spring clip , perform push , pull and push to ensure the hose is fully seated
unfold the front rh carpet forward , and then install the clip s s that attach the front rh carpet to the body .
check the torque for any rear suspension bolts that were loosened while the rear subframe assembly was removed from the vehicle . see suspension rear .
measure the distance between the bottom of the fender and the center of the front axle and adjust the underhoist stand so that the front suspension is set to ride height .
release the locking tab , and then disconnect the electrical connector from the high pressure and temperature sensor . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector .
release the locking tab , and then disconnect the electrical connector from the high pressure temperature subcool sensor . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector .
record the part numbers and serial numbers of the old and new sensors in the repair order .
release the locking tab , and then disconnect the electrical connector from the high pressure temperature sensor . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector .
connect to vehicle using toolbox 3.0
install the seat belt webbing guide to the bpillar , and then install the bolts that attach the guide to the bpillar . 3.5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 8 mm socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench
install the lh curtain airbag to the side rail , and then carefully fasten the clips that attach the airbag to the side rail . warning if any clips are damaged , the airbag must be replaced .
remove the bolts that attach the lower lh and rh of the cooling fan module to the ankle catcher . note lift up on the cooling fan module to ease the removal of the bolts . figure 1 . lh side figure 2 . rh side
navigate to `` cfg '' tab on `` vitals '' page in garage , and then check the coolant pump gtw configuration . perform one of the following : if the gateway configuration is dual or dual_san_p4 , change the configuration to dual_mix . caution this is critical because the coolant pump identification will apply to this new configuration . if the gateway configuration is already dual_mix , skip step 7 .
remove coolant bottle cap
install the rh center console side panel carpet . see side panel center console lh .
connect the subframe electrical harness to the front drive unit motor resolver connector , and then press the red locking tab to secure the connector .
connect the rear drive unit inlet hose to the inverter coolant coupling , and then fasten the clip .
tighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh front damper to the lower control arm , and then mark the bolt and nut with a paint pen . 106 nm
perform a test drive and verify vehicle operation .
release the locking tab , and then disconnect the electrical connector from the recirc exv . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector .
remove cabin intake upper duct assembly note 3x clips , older vehicles may be equipped with 4x clips
use the p/t sensor socket to remove the high pressure temperature subcool sensor from the supermanifold . caution use only hand tools to remove the pt sensor . impact or power tools will break the threads . caution use only the p/t sensor socket to remove the sensor . using other tools can damage the connector housing . note use of the following tool is recommended : gen 2 p/t sensor socket , 24mm flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench 6 in extension
lubricate the new low pressure temperature sensor threads and oring with nd11 oil .
use the p/t sensor socket to remove the high pressure temperature sensor from the supermanifold . caution use only hand tools to remove the pt sensor . impact or power tools will break the threads . caution use only the p/t sensor socket to remove the sensor . using other tools can damage the connector housing . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : gen 2 p/t sensor socket , 24 mm flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench 6 in extension
install a new patchbolt to attach the upper dring to the top loop . 20 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t45 socket 3/8 in std ratchet 3/8 in torque wrench 3 in extension
install and handtighten the bolts that attach the rear portion of the lh curtain airbag to the body .
release the side clips that attach the active grille shutter to the condenser fan module . figure 3 . other components hidden for clarity
fill coolant bottle to base of neck as indicated
install the rh lower apillar trim . see trim apillar lower lh .
install the bolt that attaches the lh motor mount to the lh motor mount bracket . 105 nm note it might be necessary to adjust the subframe jig to help align the bolt into the mount .
remove the underhoist stand from underneath the lh front suspension .
release the locking tab , and then disconnect the electrical connector from the liquid cooled condenser exv . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector .
remove the close out panel from frunk assembly note 4x clips , 1x connector , frunk safety switch , 3x guide tabs , grab the closeout panel from the bottom then pull it upward to release clips
install and handtighten the low pressure temperature sensor until the sensor oring just makes contact with the supermanifold . note use an inspection mirror to visualize this and subsequent steps .
install the lh lower bpillar trim . see trim bpillar lower lh .
remove the coolant bottle cap .
install and handtighten the bolts that attach the front and center portions of the lh curtain airbag to the body .
release the lower clips that attach the active grille shutter to the bottom of the condenser fan module . note make sure that the active grille shutter assembly is pushed up and away from the cooling fan module . figure 4 . view is from under vehicle ; other components hidden for clarity
remove absorbent material from below car computer coolant hose connection points
install the passenger footwell cover . see cover footwell passenger
release the straps that attach the front subframe to the subframe lifting tool .
repeat step 33 through 37 on the rh side of the vehicle .
release the locking tab , and then disconnect the electrical connector from the liquid cooled condenser shut off valve . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector .
remove fasteners securing the frunk assembly note 7x bolts , 10mm , 5 nm , lift up the rbn covers to access the front fasteners , newer vehicles may not be equipped with covers
lubricate the new high pressure temperature subcool sensor threads and oring with nd11 oil .
manually back off and tighten the low pressure temperature sensor in an incremental manner so that the sensor oring properly slides into the chamfer in the supermanifold .
lubricate the new high pressure temperature sensor threads and oring with nd11 oil .
remove hsd cable from ethernet port to disconnect toolbox 3.0 from vehicle
slide the seatbelt in through the hole in the lh upper bpillar trim .
position a fluid evacuator near the front of the vehicle , and set the evacuator to `` evacuate '' mode .
torque the bolts that attach the lh curtain airbag to the body . 9 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension
release the upper clips that attach the active grille shutter to the top of the condenser fan module . figure 5 . other components hidden for clarity
remove absorbent material from beneath car computer
remove the car computer fluid port plug from the car computer coolant fittings .
lower the subframe lifting tool , and move it out from under the front subframe .
install the rear fascia diffuser . see diffuser rear fascia .
install the bolt that attaches the lh front brake rotor to the hub . 5 nm
release the locking tab , and then disconnect the electrical connector from the right side cabin condenser exv . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector .
remove frunk assembly from vehicle note 10x clips , replace any clips if broken or missing , number of clips may vary on newer vehicles
install and handtighten the high pressure temperature subcool sensor until the sensor oring just makes contact with the supermanifold . note use an inspection mirror to visualize this and subsequent steps .
if the low pressure temperature sensor oring appears to pinch , or no longer slides into the chamfer , stop and reverse thread the sensor until the oring no longer appears to be pinched .
install and handtighten the high pressure temperature sensor until the sensor oring just makes contact with the supermanifold . note use an inspection mirror to visualize this and subsequent steps .
fasten the clips that attach the lh upper bpillar trim to the vehicle . tip : fasten the clips at the top of the lh upper bpillar trim first , and then fasten the clips at the bottom of the trim .
position the evacuation hose in the front lh corner of the coolant bottle , and then evacuate as much coolant as possible .
connect the electrical harness to the lh curtain airbag connector .
while tilting the condenser fan module downwards , carefully release and remove the active grille shutter from underneath the vehicle . caution while removing the active grille shutter , take care not to damage the radiator fins .
perform the following steps for vehicles with earlier versions of the car computer that have a larger car computer visor : install new patch bolts that attach the front passenger airbag to the cross car beam . 8 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t30 socket or external torx e10 connect the electrical connectors for the front passenger airbag . figure 3 . figure c figure 4 . figure d
remove the plugs from the female fittings of the coolant hoses .
fasten the clip that attaches the front drive unit ground strap to the front drive unit .
install the rear subframe to the vehicle . see subframe assembly rear .
install the rh rear brake caliper bracket onto the knuckle , and then install the bolts that attach the caliper bracket to the knuckle . 83 nm lh rear brake caliper shown , rh rear brake caliper similar .
repeat step 35 through 42 for the rh side of the vehicle .
release the locking tab , and then disconnect the electrical connector from the high pressure and temperature subcool sensor . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector .
remove fresh intake duct note 2x studs , remove from bulkhead studs
manually back off and tighten the high pressure temperature subcool sensor in an incremental manner so that the sensor oring properly slides into the chamfer in the supermanifold .
continue to back off and tighten the low pressure temperature sensor until the oring slides completely into the chamfer and is no longer visible . note there should be no gap , and the sensor body should be bottomed out against the supermanifold .
manually back off and tighten the high pressure temperature sensor in an incremental manner so that the sensor oring properly slides into the chamfer in the supermanifold .
remove caps from low side and high side ac ports note 2x caps
install the lh rear sill panel trim . see trim sill panel rear lh .
release the locking tab , and then disconnect the electrical connector from the coolant bottle level sensor . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector .
install the headliner . see headliner .
position the active grille shutter on the cooling fan module , and then install the lower clips that attach the active grille shutter to the bottom of the condenser fan module . figure 6 . view is from under vehicle ; other components hidden for clarity
install passenger knee air bag onto vehicle note 1x connector , use caution not to damage connector and harness , support knee air bag while connecting connector
release the clips on the coolant hoses , connect the coolant hoses to the car computer , and then fasten the clips .
torque the bolt that attaches the front drive unit ground strap to the hv battery . 10 nm
install the rh wheel arch liner . see wheel arch liner rear lh .
release the locking tab , and then disconnect the electrical connector from the left side cabin condenser exv . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector .
if the high pressure temperature subcool sensor oring appears to pinch , or no longer slides into the chamfer , stop and reverse thread the sensor until the oring no longer appears to be pinched .
use the p/t sensor socket to tighten the low pressure temperature sensor to the specified torque value . 9 nm caution use only hand tools to install the pt sensor . impact or power tools will break the threads . caution use only the p/t sensor socket to install the sensor . using other tools can damage the sensor . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : gen 2 p/t sensor socket , 24mm flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench 3 in extension
if the high pressure temperature sensor oring appears to pinch , or no longer slides into the chamfer , stop and reverse thread the sensor until the oring no longer appears to be pinched .
connect hoses to vehicle and perform a/c recovery note connect couplers to vehicle , open couplers by turning clockwise , open machine valves , note the amount of refrigerant and oil recovered , if drained oil level increased more than 30 ml refer to drained oil loss chart
release the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the top of the coolant bottle .
install the side clips that attach the active grille shutter to the condenser fan module . figure 7 . other components hidden for clarity
install bolts securing passenger knee air bag to vehicle note 4x patch bolts , e10 , 8 nm , install new patch bolts , 2x screws , t20 , 2 nm , 1x push clip , if vehicle equipped with t30 bolts update to e10
remove the absorbent material from below the car computer coolant hose connections .
install the bolt that attaches the front drive unit ground strap to the front drive unit . 6 nm
repeat steps 40 and 41 on the lh side of the vehicle .
install the lh and rh front wheel arch liners . see wheel arch liner front lh .
release the locking tab , and then disconnect the electrical connector from the chiller exv . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector .
disconnect first responder loop note 1x connector , release locking tab
continue to back off and tighten the high pressure temperature subcool sensor until the oring slides completely into the chamfer and is no longer visible . note there should be no gap , and the sensor body should be bottomed out against the supermanifold .
connect the electrical harness to the low pressure temperature sensor , and then engage the locking tab . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push down or pull up on the red locking tab .
continue to back off and tighten the high pressure temperature sensor until the oring slides completely into the chamfer and is no longer visible . note there should be no gap , and the sensor body should be bottomed out against the supermanifold .
disconnect the electrical connector from the sensor on the chiller to battery hose , near the coolant bottle . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector . note note the color of the tape wrapped around the connector harness and the position of the harness in relation to the coolant bottle .
connect to vehicle using toolbox 3.0 note vehicle connection is integrated into drivers footwell cover , open toolbox 3 website and establish connection to the vehicle . select connection status icon at top right corner , and select connect locally
install the upper clips that attach the active grille shutter to the top of the condenser fan module . figure 8 . other components hidden for clarity
connect first responder loop note 1x connector , engage locking tab , connect frl before connecting 12v to avoid damage to car computer
install the front drive unit hv harness onto the casting .
install the clips that attach the valance to the body .
release the locking tab , and then disconnect the electrical connector from the evap exv . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector .
remove vent tube hose from lh side of 12v battery note 1x hose
use the p/t sensor socket to tighten the high pressure temperature subcool sensor to the specified torque value . 9 nm caution use only hand tools to install the pt sensor . impact or power tools will break the threads . caution use only the p/t sensor socket to install the sensor . using other tools can damage the sensor . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : gen 2 p/t sensor socket , 24mm flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench 6 in extension
perform the vacuum leak test and oil injection . see vacuum leak test and oil injection .
use the p/t sensor socket to tighten the high pressure temperature sensor to the specified torque value . 9 nm caution use only hand tools to install the pt sensor . impact or power tools will break the threads . caution use only the p/t sensor socket to install the sensor . using other tools can damage the sensor . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : gen 2 p/t sensor socket , 24 mm flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench 6 in extension
disconnect the electrical connector from the sensor on the powertrain supply hose , near the coolant bottle . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector . note note the color of the tape wrapped around the connector harness and the position of the harness in relation to the coolant bottle .
from underneath the vehicle , move the cooling fan module into position , and then hand start the bolts that attach the cooling fan module to the ankle catcher . note assistance is recommended . note lift up on the cooling fan module to ease the installation of the bolts . note make sure the lower edge of the active grille shutter is flush with the lower edge of the cooling fan module .
turn hvac on , turn ac off and set the blower speed to 10 . set the temperature to hi and run for 10 minutes note this will clear most of the oil out of the cabin condenser
connect 12v negative terminal note 1x nut , 10mm , 6 nm
connect the front drive unit hv harness from the front drive unit inverter hv header squarely , lower the black handle , and then slide the red locking tab .
remove the supermanifold harness from the supermanifold and rest it on the frunk support beam .
release terminal cover and remove positive terminal note 2x clips , 1x nut , 10mm , 6 nm , do not fully remove positive terminal nut
connect the electrical harness to the high pressure temperature subcool sensor , and then engage the locking tab . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push down or pull up on the red locking tab .
recharge the a/c refrigerant . see recharge . note do not disconnect the laptop from the vehicle yet .
connect the electrical harness to the high pressure temperature sensor , and then engage the locking tab . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push down or pull up on the red locking tab .
release the connector locks , and then disconnect the electrical connectors leading up to the desired exv . follow the disconnect order in the example image . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector . note the disconnect order is for ease of access . figure 1 . disconnect order
release the spring clip , and then remove the chiller to battery hose from the supermanifold .
torque the bolts that attach the lower lh and rh of the cooling fan module to the ankle catcher . 10 nm note lift up on the cooling fan module to ease the installation of the bolts . figure 9 . lh side figure 10 . rh side
turn off the hvac and let it sit for 1 minute note make sure both compressor and blower are off , this allows refrigerant inside cabin condenser to return to the accumulator
connect to vehicle using toolbox 3.0
install the bolt that attaches the front drive unit hv harness to the front drive unit . 10 nm
connect a 12v battery charger to the 12v battery .
handtighten the lug nuts that attach the lh and rh front wheels .
remove the bolt that attaches the liquid cooled condenser shut off valve connector assembly to the shut off valve . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 3 mm hex 6 in extension flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
remove bolt securing 12v battery upper tie down strap to ac compressor bracket note 1x bolt , 10mm , 5 nm
install new seal washers on the supermanifold side of the supermanifoldtocompressor a/c line , and then lubricate the washers with a small amount of nd11 oil .
if a refrigerant leak detector is available , make sure that there is no leak at the low pressure temperature sensor .
release the locking tab , and then disconnect the electrical connector from the desired exv . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector . figure 2 . evap exv shown
release the spring clip , and then remove the powertrain supply hose from the supermanifold .
raise vehicle fully and lower lift onto locks note set vehicle to comfortable working height , make sure there 's an audible click of the locks on both sides before lowering , otherwise vehicle may tilt to the side
turn the hvac back on , turn the ac on , set the blower speed to 10 and the temperature to lo , run the hvac for 10 minutes note this step will clear most of the oil out of the evaporator
select ‘ actions/autodiag ’ tab and search for ‘ purge '
heat pump model 3 connect the electrical harness to the lh front rail bracket connector , and then fasten the red locking tab on the opposite side of the lh front rail bracket .
press and hold the park button on the gear selector to release the epb service mode .
lower the vehicle until the tires are just above the ground , but the front tires are free to spin .
remove the liquid cooled condenser shut off valve connector assembly from the supermanifold .
remove battery upper tie down strap note lift battery tie down strap up and remove it from the rear tie down hook strap
position the supermanifoldtocompressor a/c line on the supermanifold , and then hand tighten the bolt that attaches the a/c line to the supermanifold .
remove the supermanifold harness from the supermanifold .
install the lh front seatbelt pretensioner coupling onto the lh front seat pretensioner . note perform a pullpushpull test to verify the pretensioner and coupling are fully engaged .
release the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the rh side of the coolant bottle .
remove outer fasteners from front aero shield note 7x bolts , 10mm , 5 nm
turn off the ac and blower motor
select `` coolant air purge '' and then `` run '' once popup opens note coolant pumps will be audible , test lasts approximately 10 mins , speeds can be monitored in garage under pt thermal tab , idle speed = ~1500 rpm , test will vary speeds from 35006500 rpm and actuate valve between series and parallel , putting vehicle into drive state will stop this routine , if speeds hover at 7000 rpm , that means the pumps are air locked , perform vacuum fill again
heat pump model 3 fasten the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the front subframe .
install the bolts that attach the upper portion of the front fascia to the vehicle . 4 nm
remove the liquid cooled condenser shut off valve from the supermanifold . caution use only hand tools to remove the shut off valve . impact or power tools will break the threads . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 158874400a shut off valve socket , 36mm , 1/2 drive 6 in extension flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
remove 12v battery from vehicle
tighten the bolt that attaches the a/c line to the supermanifold . 22 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench 6 in extension
use a pick to pull the locking tab downward , and then pull toward the front of the vehicle to remove the exv coil .
release the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the lower lh side of the coolant bottle .
remove remaining nuts and remove front aero shield from vehicle note 2x nuts , 15mm , 5 nm
slide the underhood reinforcement bracket onto the top of the cooling fan module . note the cooling fan module tab must be inserted into the isolator so that the trailing tab touches the isolator rubber and the chamfered edge is clearly visible when looking from above . note the trailing edge of the cooling fan module mount must contact the lower tunnel of the isolator .
remove hsd or rj45 cable from ethernet port to disconnect toolbox 3.0 from vehicle
heat pump model 3 fasten the clip that piggybacks the electrical harness to the clip just fastened .
perform a vacuum refill of the cooling system . see cooling system .
connect the electrical connectors onto the steering rack assembly .
lubricate the liquid cooled condenser shut off valve threads and orings with nd11 oil , and then handstart the shut off valve into the supermanifold .
after the routine ends , click the `` x '' at the upper right corner of the prompt .
remove the exv valve body from the supermanifold . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 158874500a expansion valve socket , 28mm , 1/2 '' drive 6 in extension flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
remove the screw that attaches the side of the coolant bottle to the supermanifold . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t25 socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
lower vehicle fully note raise lift off locks , then hold lock release lever to keep locks free while vehicle is lowered
install the bolts that attach the underhood storage unit reinforcement bracket to the cooling fan module . 16 nm
raise all windows
heat pump model 3 connect the electrical harness to the lv logic connectors below the steering gear , and then push the red tabs to lock the connectors .
remove the 12v charger from the 12v battery .
slide the intermediate shaft downward to install it to the steering gear . note make sure that the intermediate shaft is aligned and fully seated onto the steering gear . note with an assistant , align the intermediate shaft to the steering gear .
fully torque the liquid cooled condenser shut off valve on the supermanifold . 19 nm caution use only hand tools to install the shut off valve . impact or power tools will break the threads . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 158874400a shut off valve socket , 36mm , 1/2 drive 6 in extension flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
lubricate the exv threads and orings with nd11 oil , and then handstart the valve into the supermanifold .
install the lh instrument panel end cap . see end cap instrument panel lh .
remove the screw that attaches the front of the coolant bottle to the supermanifold . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t25 socket 10 in extension flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
connect the electrical harness to the active grille shutter electrical connector .
close lh front door
move the coolant drain collector to underneath the rh front of the hv battery .
install the bolt that attaches the intermediate shaft to the steering rack assembly , and then slide the intermediate shaft upwards . 18 nm
position the liquid cooled condenser shut off valve connector assembly on the shut off valve . note align the tab on the connector assembly with the recess on the shut off valve .
if a refrigerant leak detector is available , make sure that there is no leak at the high pressure temperature subcool sensor .
install the underhood storage unit . see underhood storage unit . caution when installing the hood latch cover : inspect the hood latch mechanism for any foreign object that might have dropped in . if any object is found , remove it and confirm that the hood latch operates correctly . inspect the condition of the clips that attach the hood latch cover . if any clip is damaged , dislodged , or missing , install a new hood latch cover since the clips are nonserviceable parts .
if a refrigerant leak detector is available , make sure that there is no leak at the high pressure temperature sensor .
fully torque the exv on the supermanifold . 19 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 158874500a expansion valve socket , 28mm , 1/2 '' drive 6 in extension flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
release the coolant bottle from the supermanifold , and move the bottle towards the rear of the vehicle to remove it .
connect hoses to vehicle and perform ac recovery note touch time only , connect couplers to vehicle , open couplers by turning clockwise , open machine valves , note the amount of refrigerant and oil recovered , if drained oil level increased more than 30 ml refer to drained oil loss chart .
connect rh footwell assembly connectors note 2x connectors
remove the plugs , immediately connect the front drive unit heat exchanger to superbottle/ supermanifold hose to the front drive unit heat exchanger , fasten the clip , and then perform a pushpullpush check of the fittings . figure 13 . heat pump model 3 figure 14 . model 3
install the lh and rh front wheels . refer to wheel .
open the lh front door and fully lower the lh front window .
install the bolt that attaches the liquid cooled condenser shut off valve connector assembly to the shut off valve . 5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 3 mm hex 6 in extension flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
remove the cooling fan module . see module cooling fan .
install the exv coil onto the exv . note align the locking tab on the connector assembly with the recess in the exv .
verify the oring at the bottom of the coolant bottle is properly seated , and then apply lubricant to the oring .
position coolant drain container underneath front of vehicle
install the underhood storage unit . see underhood storage unit
install clips securing rh footwell assembly note 4x push clips
model 3 fasten the clip that attaches the front drive unit inverter inlet hose to the body .
connect the electrical connector on the evap exv . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push down or pull up on the red locking tab .
release the clips that attach the active grille shutter to the cooling fan module , and then remove the active grille shutter from the module .
position the coolant bottle on the supermanifold , making sure the coolant bottle output is fully seated against the supermanifold coolant input . figure 1 . supermanifold coolant input
remove coolant bottle cap
move rh front seat to original position
remove the plugs , immediately connect the front drive unit inverter inlet hose to the powetrain return hose , fasten the clip , and then perform a pushpullpush check of the fitting . figure 15 . heat pump model 3 figure 16 . model 3
restore the driver and front passenger seats back to their original position .
connect the electrical connector on the chiller exv . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push down or pull up on the red locking tab .
recover the a/c refrigerant . see a/c refrigerant . note recover the refrigerant while continuing this procedure .
remove the screws that attach the radiator to the condenser fan module . 10 nm
remove the lower clips that attach the lower rear edge of the rh wheel arch liner to the body , to allow access to the coolant hose .
install the screw that attaches the side of the coolant bottle to the supermanifold . 5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t25 socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
disconnect the powertrain bypass hose from the supermanifold note 1x spring clip , this will drain the coolant reservoir
close rh front door
release the clip and disconnect the powertrain supply hose fitting from the rh underside of the penthouse .
release the clips that attach the powertrain return hose to the rh side of the hv battery , and remove the hose from the hv battery .
release the clip and disconnect the rh inner hv battery return hose fitting from the rh end of the hv battery platter enclosure .
connect the electrical connector on the left side cabin condenser exv . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push down or pull up on the red locking tab .
place fluid extractor in front of vehicle note set mityvac to evacuate
release the clip that attaches the radiator to the condenser fan module , and then remove the radiator from the condenser fan module .
position a coolant drain under the front rh corner of the hv battery .
install the screw that attaches the front of the coolant bottle to the supermanifold . 5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t25 socket 10 in extension flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
disconnect the radiator outlet hose from the supermanifold note 1x spring clip
inspect coolant level and top off as necessary note ensure that fluid level is at max line
install the rh front wheel arch liner to the rh rocker cover , and then fasten the clips that attach the liner to the cover .
release the clips that attach the powertrain supply hose to the rh side of the hv battery , and remove the hose from the hv battery .
remove the plugs from the powertrain return hose , if installed .
remove the bolt that attaches the intermediate shaft to the steering rack assembly , and then slide the electric steering column upwards to remove it from the steering gear assembly .
release the clips that attach the rh inner hv battery return hose to the hv battery .
connect the electrical connector on the right side cabin condenser exv . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push down or pull up on the red locking tab .
evacuate coolant from coolant bottle note place evacuation hose in bottle at left front corner to remove as much fluid as possible , pump fluid into mityvac evacuator
disconnect the rear powertrain supply hose at the rh side of the vehicle , plug the male fitting , and allow the female fitting to drain .
install the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the lower lh side of the coolant bottle .
disconnect the radiator inlet hose from the supermanifold note 1x spring clip
remove 2nd row seat cushion and disconnect harness note 2x tabs , 2x connectors , press tab toward lh side of vehicle on each side to release front edge of seat cushion , newer vehicles may have both connectors located on lh side
install coolant bottle cap
install the front skid plate to the hv battery , and then install the bolts that attach the skid plate to the hv battery . 13 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : e10 socket
connect to vehicle using toolbox .
connect the electrical connector on the high pressure and temperature subcool sensor . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push down or pull up on the red locking tab .
disconnect the coolant bottle level sensor connector note 1x locking electrical connector , do not push down on red tab , pull red tab to disengage lock , pull again to release connector
install the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the rh side of the coolant bottle .
install fresh air intake assembly informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note 2x studs , maneuver between cowl and frunk
install the bolts that attach the skid plate to the hv battery . 5 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket
connect the electrical connector on the liquid cooled condenser shut off valve . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push down or pull up on the red locking tab .
remove clip securing harness on top of coolant bottle note 1x fir tree clip
install cabin intake upper duct assembly informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note 4x clips , heat pump vehicles have 3x clips
install and handtighten the bolt and nut that attach the lh front strut to the lh front lower lateral link . note bolt and nut will be torqued later .
move the driver and front passenger seats to their original positions .
with the help of an assistant , slide the lh front upper control arm into the lh front knuckle , and then install the bolt and a new nut to attach the control arm to the knuckle . 56 nm
remove the steering wheel holder and level from the steering wheel .
install the front stabilizer bar lh link to the front lh strut , and then installl a new nut to attach the link to the strut .. 98 nm note to prevent damage to the link , use a t40 tool to prevent the link ball joint shaft from turning . note use a prybar on the stabilizer bar to unload the link and ease installation onto the strut .
install the lh front brake caliper to lh front knuckle , and then install new bolts to attach the caliper to the knuckle . 94 nm figure 17 . heat pump model 3 figure 18 . model 3
begin a/c refrigerant recovery , and then return to this procedure . see recovery .
install the bolt that attaches the lh front brake caliper hose bracket to the lh front knuckle . 5 nm figure 19 . heat pump model 3 figure 20 . model 3
fasten the clips that attach the lh front wheel speed sensor harness to the lh front knuckle .
install the lh front wheel speed sensor to the lh front knuckle , and then install the bolt that attaches the sensor to the knuckle . 5 nm
repeat step 36 through step 42 on the rh side of the vehicle .
fully lower the vehicle .
remove the coolant bottle . see coolant bottle .
when the a/c refrigerant recovery is complete , disconnect the a/c hoses from the vehicle . see recovery .
remove the supermanifold to hvac a/c line . see a/c line supermanifold to hvac .
remove the liquid cooled condenser check valve snap ring from the supermanifold . tip : use an inspection mirror as needed .
remove the liquid cooled condenser check valve from the supermanifold . caution if the check valve separates from the aluminum cap during removal , do not use metal tools . metal tools may scrape the supermanifold housing causing internal damage . use fingers or wrap electrical tape around a 90 degree pick .
use nd11 oil to lubricate the orings on the liquid cooled condenser check valve , and then install it into the supermanifold . tip : use an inspection mirror as needed .
install a new liquid cooled condenser check valve snap ring onto the supermanifold . note make sure the snap ring is fully seated inside the groove in the supermanifold . tip : use an inspection mirror as needed .
replace the seal washers on the supermanifold to hvac a/c line assembly on the supermanifold side .
repeat step 44 through 51 for the rh side of the vehicle .
replace the seal washers on the supermanifold to hvac a/c line assembly on the hvac side .
connect the electrical harness to the horn connectors . figure 21 . heat pump model 3 figure 22 . model 3
recover the a/c refrigerant . see a/c refrigerant . note recover the refrigerant while continuing this procedure .
remove the plug from the powertrain supply hose , if installed .
remove the 12v battery from the vehicle . see 12v/lv battery .
release the clip and disconnect the lh inner hv battery return hose fitting from the lh end of the hv battery platter enclosure .
position a coolant drain under the superbottle .
connect the coolant pressure test adapter to the female fitting .
perform ac vacuum test note 2 minute vacuum leak test , 15 minute vacuum
overlap from a/c refrigerant recovery note subtract time spent on other operations while waiting for a/c recovery to complete
remove the bolt that secures the rear battery tie down strap , and then remove the tie down strap .
release the clips that attach the hv battery return hose to the lh side of the hv battery , and remove the hose from the hv battery .
connect to vehicle using toolbox 3.0 .
release the clip and disconnect the powertrain supply hose at the lower lh side of the superbottle . note allow the coolant to drain from the superbottle .
remove low side ac hose from supermanifold to hvac ac line assembly
install the powertrain supply hose on the supermanifold . note perform a pushpull test to verify that the hose is fully seated .
remove ac hoses from vehicle
inspect hv insulating gloves note check gloves for damage prior to use , refer to service document tn1592003 r1 , for information on inspecting hv gloves .
release the 12v battery vent tube from the battery bracket .
remove the plug from the hv battery return hose , if installed .
connect the electrical connector on the liquid cooled condenser exv . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push down or pull up on the red locking tab .
release the clip and disconnect the battery return hose from the rear left of the superbottle .
disconnect the sensor for the chiller to battery hose note 1x locking electrical connector , do not push down on red tab , pull red tab to disengage lock , pull again to release connector
use oil injector to add measured amount of oil back to the system note use calculated oil lost measurement and add new nd11 oil into the system , if more than 30 ml drained out during recovery refer to drained oil loss chart
install the chiller to battery hose on the supermanifold . note perform a pushpull test to verify that the hose is fully seated .
remove bolt on supermanifold to compressor ac line assembly note 1x bolt , 13mm , 22 nm
install the rear underhood apron . see underhood apron rear .
place the fluid extractor in front of vehicle , remove the coolant reservoir cap and evacuate as much coolant from the reservoir as possible .
connect the electrical connector on the recirc exv . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push down or pull up on the red locking tab .
release the clip that attaches the battery return hose to the superbottle .
remove the shock tower brace . see brace shock tower . note do not separate the compressor body bracket from the strut tower brace .
disconnect the sensor for the powertrain supply hose note 1x locking electrical connector , do not push down on red tab , pull red tab to disengage lock , pull again to release connector
install low side ac hose to supermanifold to hvac ac line assembly
connect the electrical connector to the sensor on the powertrain supply hose , near the coolant bottle . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push the locking tab sideways .
position supermanifold to compressor ac line assembly away from supermanifold note position ac manifold line to avoid oil leaking out
remove the bolts securing penthouse probe lid cover to penthouse cover note 2x bolts , ep10 5lobe , 6 nm , discard after removal
close hood
remove the lh and rh bolts that attach the shock tower brace to the body . 67 nm 67 nm
connect the electrical connector on the high pressure and temperature sensor . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push down or pull up on the red locking tab .
disconnect the electrical harness from the powertrain pump to sill hose coolant temperature sensor connector .
disconnect chiller to battery hose from supermanifold note 1x spring clip
perform ac refrigerant refill note recharge refrigerant to 1.02 kg , for robinair ac machines press esc to not accept the step to clear out residual oil , once complete press next to start end of charge process
connect the electrical connector to the sensor on the chiller to battery hose , near the coolant bottle . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push the locking tab sideways .
disconnect electronic expansion valve chiller connector note 1x locking electrical connector , do not push down on red tab , pull red tab to disengage lock , pull again to release connector
remove the penthouse probe lid cover from the penthouse cover
remove the lh and rh outer bolts that attach the shock tower brace to the body . 62 nm
remove and discard the evaporator check valve snap ring from the supermanifold .
release the clip and disconnect the powertrain pump to sill connector hose from the rear right of the superbottle .
partially lower the vehicle , and then position a coolant drain container underneath the rh front side of the vehicle .
remove thermal sub assembly harness clip on rh side of coolant bottle note 1x fir tree clip
disconnect the powertrain return hose at the rh side of the vehicle , plug the female fitting , and allow the male fitting to drain .
perform step 1 for end of charge process note close high and low machine valves , press next to continue
install the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the top of the coolant bottle .
remove the electronic expansion valve chiller coil note release locking tab at bottom of coil and remove towards front of vehicle
verify no high voltage note make sure to wear ppe when working on high voltage component , measure b+ to ground , b to ground , b+ to b , if voltage is greater than 10v , pack contactors are not open or welded , stop work and reach out to service engineering
shift the shock tower brace forward to gain clearance .
remove the evaporator check valve from the supermanifold . caution if the check valve separates from the aluminum cap during removal , do not use metal tools . metal tools may scrape the supermanifold housing causing internal damage . use fingers or wrap electrical tape around a 90 degree pick instead .
disconnect the electrical harness from the superbottle level sensor connector .
install a foldable funnel underneath the heat exchanger , as shown . note make sure the foldable funnel covers the front drive unit 12v connector , steering rack , and is positioned to catch fluid from the heat exchanger coolant outlet .
remove thermal sub assembly harness clip at bottom left of coolant bottle note 1x fir tree clip
connect the coolant drain adapter to the male connector , and direct the tube to the coolant drain .
connect the electrical connector on the coolant bottle level sensor . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push the locking tab sideways .
remove fasteners securing chiller to supermanifold note 4x bolts , 8mm , 8 nm
inspect penthouse probe lid cover gasket then position onto the penthouse cover note confirm no visual damage present
remove the bolts that attach the 12v battery bracket beam to the body .
use nd11 oil to lubricate the orings on the evaporator check valve , and then install it into the supermanifold .
disconnect the electrical harness from the 5way valve actuator connector .
release the clip that connects the front drive unit heat exchangersuperbottle hose to the heat exchanger coolant outlet , and then drain the coolant into the coolant drain container .
remove screw at the rear of coolant bottle securing the coolant bottle to supermanifold note 1x screw , t25 , 5 nm
slowly open p2 to speed the drain .
fill the coolant bottle up to the max line with the proper coolant .
slightly release chiller and allow excess coolant to drain note slightly release rh side of chiller and allow excess coolant to drain , leave ac ports intact to supermanifold while coolant drains to avoid cross contamination
install the bolts securing penthouse probe lid cover to penthouse cover note 2x bolts , ep10 5lobe , 6 nm , install new rubber washer bolts
remove the front aero shield panel from the vehicle . see panel aero shield front
install a new evaporator check valve snap ring onto the supermanifold . note verify the snap ring is properly seated inside the groove on the supermanifold .
release the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the lower lh side of the superbottle .
plug the front drive unit heat exchangersuperbottle hose and the heat exchanger coolant outlet .
remove screw at the front of coolant bottle securing coolant bottle to supermanifold note 1x screw , t25 , 5 nm
wait at least 5 minutes for the coolant to fully drain .
select `` actions/autodiag '' and search for `` commissioning ''
remove chiller from supermanifold
remove hv insulating gloves
remove push clips that secure the lower rear edge of the lh front wheel liner to gain access to hv battery hose clips . note use a bungee strap to pull back the lh front wheel liner and secure it to the subframe .
connect a laptop with toolbox 3.0 to the vehicle .
release the clip and disconnect the radiator inlet hose from the front left of the superbottle .
remove coolant bottle from supermanifold note remove by sliding the bottle away from the supermanifold towards the rear of the vehicle , and rotate out the top , verify coolant bottle oring is removed with coolant bottle
close p2 when no more coolant is expelled .
remove chiller gasket from supermanifold note 1x gasket , discard after removal
recharge the a/c refrigerant . see recharge . caution recharge the refrigerant exactly as instructed . failure to adhere to the instructions can cause catastrophic damage to the cooling system . note do not disconnect the laptop from the vehicle yet .
release the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the chiller and exv assembly hose , and then remove the electrical harness from the hose .
release the clip and disconnect the radiator outlet hose from the front right of the superbottle .
disconnect octovalve connector note 1x electrical connector , do not push down on red tab , pull red tab to disengage lock , pull again to release connector
proceed with steps 24 for end of charge process and follow instructions displayed on ac machine note turn ac on , temp setting lo , panel mode on , fresh air mode on , blower speed set to 3 , verify discharge pressure does not exceed 26 bar and suction pressure is not below 1.15 bar , turn ac off , allow pressures to stabilize and remove high side hose
install chiller gasket into supermanifold note 1x gasket , install new gasket
disconnect the hv battery return tube from the hv battery hose : release clips and remove plugs .
connect the first responder loop .
release the clip that attaches the battery vent hose to the chiller and exv assembly hose , and then remove the battery vent hose from the chiller and exv assembly hose .
remove fasteners securing octovalve to supermanifold and remove octovalve from vehicle note 4x screws , t25 , 5 nm
remove the coolant pressure test adapter and coolant drain adapter from the hoses
proceed with steps 56 for end of charge process and follow instructions displayed on ac machine note turn ac on , temp setting lo , panel mode on , fresh air mode on , blower speed set to 3 , turn machine valves to open , allow pressures to stabilize , remove low side hose from vehicle , continue with ac machine instructions and clear ac hoses
select the actions/autodiag tab and search for `` purge ''
install chiller to supermanifold and install fasteners hand tight note lubricate orings with nd11 oil , verify chiller is fully seated on supermanifold before installing fasteners , torque at later step
release the clips that attach the battery return hose to the body .
install the negative cable on the 12v battery .
release the clip and disconnect the coolant hose from the chiller and exv assembly .
position octovalve to supermanifold and install fasteners securing octovalve to supermanifold note 4x screws , t25 , 5 nm , ensure dowels on octovalve engage the supermanifold before installing fasteners , octovalve must be flush with supermanifold to properly seal
perform the service procedures that required the powertrain coolant to be drained .
install caps onto ac ports note 2x caps
torque fasteners securing chiller to supermanifold in sequence note 4x bolts , 8mm , 8 nm , torque chiller in the following sequence , _x000a_chiller mount 1 , chiller mount 4 , chiller mount 2 , chiller mount 3
remove the bolt that secures the front drive unit hv harness to the front drive unit .
disconnect the electrical harness from the hv battery coolant pump connector .
connect octovalve connector note 1x locking connector , engage locking tab
after the components have been replaced , refill the coolant . see refill .
when the air purge is complete , click on the `` x '' at the upper right corner of the window .
install electronic expansion valve chiller coil note align locking tab to supermanifold , perform push pull test and verify coil properly seated
disconnect the front drive unit harness connector .
disconnect the electrical harness from the powertrain coolant pump connector .
position the coolant bottle onto the supermanifold for installation note lubricate coolant bottle oring with silicone oring lubricant , verify coolant bottle oring is properly seated on coolant bottle , position the coolant bottle outlet pipe to the supermanifold coolant inlet
remove the plugs from the hoses .
check the coolant bottle level and top off if necessary .
connect electronic expansion valve chiller connector note 1x electrical connector , engage locking tab
slide the intermediate shaft towards the rear of the vehicle .
disconnect the electrical harness from the powertrain pump to sill hose coolant temperature sensor connector . tip : tilt the superbottle toward the front of the vehicle for better access .
install the screw at rear of coolant bottle securing coolant bottle to supermanifold note 1x screw , t25 , 5 nm
connect the powertrain supply hose to the male fitting . caution perform a pushpull test to verify that the hose is fully seated .
install the coolant bottle cap .
replace seal washers for supermanifold to compressor ac line assembly on supermanifold side note 2x seal washers , lube seal washers with nd11 oil
fully lower the vehicle . see raise vehicle 2 post lift .
allow the routine to complete , and then click `` x '' at the top right corner of the window .
release the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the suction liquid line .
release the clip and disconnect the powertrain pumpsill connector hose from the rear right of the superbottle .
install screw at front of the coolant bottle securing the coolant bottle to supermanifold note 1x screw , t25 , 5 nm
connect the powertrain return hose to the female fitting . caution perform a pushpull test to verify that the hose is fully seated .
install supermanifold to compressor ac line assembly onto supermanifold note 1x bolt , 13mm , 22 nm , hand start bolt to prevent stripped threads
position a fluid catcher underneath the front of the vehicle .
position the thermal sub harness assembly away from the supermanifold .
release the clip that attaches the suction/liquid lines to the superbottle .
install thermal sub assembly harness clip to bottom left of coolant bottle note 1x fir tree clip
install the lower clips that attach the lower rear edge of the rh wheel arch liner to the body .
install the radiator inlet hose to the supermanifold note 1x spring clip , perform pushpullpush test to make sure hose is fully seated
disconnect the coolant reservoir level sensor connector , and then remove the clip that secures the harness on top of the coolant reservoir .
remove and discard the check valve cabin condenser snap ring from the supermanifold .
disconnect the electrical harness from the chiller and exv assembly connector .
release the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the rh side of the superbottle .
install thermal sub assembly harness clip to rh side of coolant bottle note 1x fir tree clip
install the radiator outlet hose to the supermanifold note 1x spring clip , perform pushpullpush test to make sure hose is fully seated
disconnect the sensor for the chiller to battery hose and the sensor for the pt supply hose .
install the supermanifold to hvac a/c line . see a/c line supermanifold to hvac .
remove the check valve cabin condenser from the supermanifold . caution if the check valve separates from the aluminum cap during removal , do not use metal tools . metal tools may scrape the supermanifold housing causing internal damage . use fingers or wrap electrical tape around a 90 degree pick instead .
disconnect the electrical harness from the low pressure transducer connector .
connect the chiller to battery hose to the supermanifold note 1x spring clip , perform pushpullpush test to make sure hose is fully seated
install the powertrain bypass hose to the supermanifold note 1x spring clip , perform pushpullpush test to make sure hose is fully seated
disconnect the chiller to battery hose and the powertrain supply hose from the supermanifold .
begin the vacuum leak test and then return to this procedure . see vacuum leak test and oil injection .
use nd11 oil to lubricate the orings on the check valve cabin condenser , and then install it into the supermanifold .
remove the bolt that attaches the suction/liquid line bracket to the shock tower brace , and then separate the bracket from the brace .
release the clip and disconnect the battery return hose from the rear left of the superbottle . tip : tilt the superbottle toward the front of the vehicle for better access .
connect the sensor for the powertrain supply hose note 1x locking connector , engage locking tab , harness and coolant hose are color coded , match harness color to coolant hose color
install the fresh intake duct . see duct fresh intake .
remove coolant drain container from underneath vehicle
remove the thermal sub assembly harness clips on the rh side and bottom left of the coolant reservoir .
install the coolant bottle . see coolant bottle .
install a new check valve cabin condenser snap ring into the supermanifold . note verify the snap ring is properly seated inside the groove on the supermanifold .
remove the bolt that attaches the suction/liquid line to the chiller and exv assembly , and then remove the line from the chiller and exv assembly .
connect the sensor for the chiller to battery hose note 1x locking connector , engage locking tab , harness and coolant hose are color coded , match harness color to coolant hose color
visually inspect liquid cooled condenser for a steel cable tie . note if a steel cable tie is found on liquid cooled condenser then replace supermanifold , refer to https : //pds.teslamotors.com/pdsui/procedure/edit/5f6a338f3c22d62b9070ac1c , do not reinstall a new cable tie as this could result in future leaks , if no cable tie is found then proceed with procedure
remove the screws at the rear and front of the coolant reservoir that secure the coolant reservoir to the supermanifold .
install the 12v battery . see 12v/lv battery . note do not connect 12v power at this time .
remove and discard the orings from the suction/liquid line fitting .
release the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the lower lh side of the superbottle . tip : lift the superbottle for better access .
install the retaining clip securing the level sensor pigtail to the coolant bottle note 1x fir tree clip
clean excess coolant from area
remove fasteners securing liquid cooled condenser to supermanifold note 4x bolts , 8mm , 8 nm
remove the coolant reservoir from the supermanifold .
disconnect the electrical harness from the 5way valve actuator connector . tip : lift the superbottle for better access . warning make sure that the refrigerant has fully recovered before continuing this procedure .
connect the coolant bottle level sensor connector note 1x locking connector , engage locking tab
position the front aero shield to vehicle and install nuts note 2x nuts , 15mm , 5 nm
slightly release top end of liquid cooled condenser to allow any excess coolant to drain note slightly pull top of liquid cooled condenser away from supermanifold , allow any excess coolant to drain , leave ac ports of liquid cooled condenser intact to supermanifold to avoid any cross contamination
disconnect the hv battery return hose from the supermanifold .
install the front aero shield . see panel aero shield front .
release the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the superbottle .
install 12v battery into vehicle
apply loctite 222 onto front aero shield bolts and install outer fasteners to front aero shield note 7x bolts , 10mm , 5 nm
remove liquid cooled condenser from supermanifold
remove the clips that secure the coolant hose to the a/c compressor bracket .
fill the coolant level to the `` max '' line .
remove the bolt that attaches the superbottle to the shock tower brace .
position battery tie down strap onto the battery note hook the upper tie down strap into the rear tie down hook strap and position for installation
slide the intermediate shaft down onto the steering gear , and then install the bolt that attaches the intermediate shaft to the steering gear . 18 nm figure 23 . heat pump model 3 figure 24 . model 3
remove liquid cooled condenser outlet gasket from supermanifold note 1x gasket , discard after removal
remove the hv battery return hose from the vehicle .
when the vacuum leak test is complete , inject the appropriate amount of oil back into the a/c system . see vacuum leak test and oil injection .
remove the nuts that attach the superbottle to the shock tower brace , and then remove the superbottle from the vehicle .
remove the superbottle from the vehicle .
install bolt securing upper tie down strap to the ac compressor bracket note 1x nut , 10mm , 5 nm
reconnect ac hoses to vehicle
install 3 male plugs into the coolant ports at the front of the supermanifold note 3x plugs , this will avoid any cross contamination
remove liquid cooled condenser inlet gasket from supermanifold note 1x gasket , discard after removal
install the new hv battery return hose in position for installation . note install the hv battery return hose from the rh side of vehicle and feed it towards lh side of vehicle and down into wheel liner area . caution do not bend or force the hose during installation . slowly rotate the hose as required .
install the superbottle to the shock tower brace , and then install the nuts that attach the superbottle to the shock tower brace . 8 nm
release the clip that attaches the front drive unit heat exchangersuperbottle hose to the superbottle .
install vent tube hose in 12v battery
perform ac vacuum test note touch time only , 2 minute leak test , 15 minute vacuum
install liquid cooled condenser inlet gasket to supermanifold note 1x gasket , install new gasket
install the clips that secure the coolant hose to the a/c compressor bracket .
install the bolt that attaches the superbottle to the shock tower brace . 8 nm
release the clip and disconnect the front drive unit heat exchangersuperbottle hose from the superbottle .
install positive terminal and terminal cover note 1x nut , 10mm , 6 nm , 2x clips
fill container with at least 15l of coolant
install liquid cooled condenser outlet gasket to supermanifold note 1x gasket , install new gasket
install the battery vent tube to the battery bracket .
fasten the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the superbottle .
connect the front drive unit heat exchangersuperbottle hose to the superbottle , and then install the clip .
place filled coolant container into front storage area
install liquid cooled condenser onto supermanifold and hand tighten fasteners note lubricate orings with nd11 oil , ensure condenser is fully seated on supermanifold before installing fasteners , torque at later step
install the rear battery tie down strap .
install the clip that attaches the suction/liquid lines to the superbottle .
install the clip that attaches the front drive unit heat exchangersuperbottle hose to the superbottle .
place coolant refill hose inside filled coolant container and make sure end is fully submerged
disconnect powertrain supply hose from supermanifold note 1x spring clip
torque fasteners securing liquid cooled condenser to supermanifold note 4x bolts , 8mm , 8 nm , torque liquid cooled condenser in following sequence lcc mount 1 , lcc mount 3 , lcc mount 2 , lcc mount 4
connect the hv battery return hose to the supermanifold .
install new orings onto the suction/liquid line fitting , install the suction/liquid line fitting into the chiller and exv assembly , and then install the bolt that attaches the suction/liquid line to the chiller and exv assembly . 5.5 nm
position the superbottle in the vehicle .
install vacuum refill cap onto coolant bottle assembly
disconnect the hv battery return hose from the supermanifold note 1x spring clip
install the bolts that attach the 12v battery bracket beam to the body .
after installing the assembly , refill the refrigerant . see a/c refrigerant . note perform installation of components removed concurrently with refrigerant refill .
connect the electrical harness to the 5way valve actuator connector .
close air inlet and coolant refill valves
install 3 male plugs into the coolant ports at the rear of the supermanifold note 3x plugs , this will avoid any cross contamination
in toolbox 3 , click the actions/autodiag tab , type ‘ purge ' into the search field , click coolant air purge , click run , and then allow the routine to complete .
install coolant reservoir to supermanifold . note lubricate coolant reservoir oring with silionce lubricant and verify that the oring is properly seated on the collant reservoir outlet pipe .
remove the superbottle . see superbottle .
install the suction/liquid line bracket onto the shock tower brace , and then install the bolt that attaches the bracket to the brace . 5.5 nm
install the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the lower lh side of the superbottle .
install vacuum refill hose into refill cap on coolant bottle note perform pushpullpush test to verify hose is fully installed
disconnect thermal sub assembly connector from front controller note 1x connector , engage locking tab and release connector lever towards lh side of vehicle
install the screws at the rear and front of the coolant reservoir that secure the coolant reservoir to the supermanifold .
connect the electrical harness to the low pressure transducer connector .
install the clip that attaches the battery return hose to the superbottle .
fill coolant to the proper level note ensure that the fluid level filled to the max line
place end of overflow hose into empty container
remove clip securing thermal sub assembly harness to front harness guide cover note 1x clip
if 12v power has been reconnected , verify on the vehicle touchscreen that the system is in fill/drain mode . if the vehicle is not in fill/drain mode , activate fill/drain mode and verify that the green status indicator is present . note the status indicator will be red if the mode is inactive .
use toolbox 3 to set the cooling system to fill mode .
move both front seats forward .
install the thermal sub assembly harness clips on the rh side and bottom left side of the coolant reservoir .
connect the electrical harness to the chiller and exv assembly connector .
connect the battery return hose to the superbottle , and then install the clip .
connect first responder loop note 1x connector , engage locking tab
connect shop air supply to vacuum tool note minimum pressure 5.5 bar
remove retaining clip securing ac compressor logic harness to ac compressor hv harness bracket note 1x fir tree clip
remove the cap from the coolant bottle .
navigate to `` cfg '' tab on `` vitals '' page in garage , and then check the coolant pump gtw configuration . perform one of the following : if the gateway configuration is dual or dual_san_p4 , change the configuration to dual_mix . caution this is critical because the coolant pump identification will apply to this new configuration . if the gateway configuration is already dual_mix , skip to step 5 .
connect the chiller to battery hose and the powertrain supply hose to the supermanifold .
open air inlet valve for 10 seconds to create a vacuum , then fully close valve note gauge stabilizes to approximately
disconnect ac compressor logic connector note 1x locking electrical connector , do not push down on red tab , pull to disengage lock , pull again to release connector
place an empty coolant container in the front underhood storage .
remove the coolant reservoir cap from the superbottle .
if equipped , remove the rh front wheel center cap . see cap wheel .
close the lh front door and raise the lh front window .
position a coolant drain container under the front of the vehicle .
set a container having at least 15 l of coolant in front underhood storage .
fill coolant to the proper level .
loosen the rh front wheel lug nuts .
disconnect the vent tube hose from the lh side of the battery and release the vent tube hose clip from the battery bracket .
place the vacuum refill tool coolant refill hose inside the filled coolant container and make sure the end of the hose is fully submerged in the coolant .
use toolbox 3 to run the coolant purge routine .
if the vehicle is equipped with dual motors , perform these steps . otherwise , go to step 6 . install a foldable funnel underneath the front drive unit heat exchanger . note make sure the foldable funnel covers the front drive unit 12v connector , steering rack , and is positioned to catch fluid from the heat exchanger coolant outlet . release the clip and disconnect the front drive unit heat exchanger to superbottle hose from the heat exchanger coolant outlet , and then drain the coolant into the coolant drain container . install plugs into the front drive unit heat exchanger to superbottle hose and the heat exchanger coolant outlet .
remove the 12v/lv battery from the vehicle . see 12v/lv battery .
raise the vehicle . see raise vehicle 2 post lift .
disconnect the coolant temperature sensor connector from the chiller to car computer and hv battery supply manifold hose .
attach the vacuum refill cap to the coolant bottle .
use toolbox 3 to run the thermal system test .
release the push clips that attach the lower rear edge of the lh and rh wheel liners to the vehicle for access to the coolant hose . figure 1 . lh side shown , rh similar
release the clip that attaches the 12v battery vent hose to the chiller to car computer and hv battery supply manifold hose .
make sure that coolant refill valve and air inlet valve on the vacuum refill tool are both closed .
install the coolant reservoir cap onto the superbottle .
pull the lh and rh wheel liners back , and then attach the liners to the subframe with bungee straps .
remove the cap from the super/coolant bottle . figure 1 . model 3 with superbottle ; other components removed for clarity figure 2 . model y with coolant bottle ; model 3 similar . other components removed for clarity
lower the vehicle to a comfortable working height , and then set the lift onto locks .
partially lower the vehicle , and then remove the rh front wheel . see wheel .
release the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the chiller to car computer and hv battery supply manifold hose .
place an absorbent towel under the car computer coolant connections , as shown .
install the vacuum refill hose into the refill cap on the coolant bottle . note perform a pushpull test to verify that the hose is fully installed .
position the coolant drain container underneath the rh front side of the hv battery .
add coolant to the super/coolant bottle , so that the liquid level is between the nom and max lines .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the powertrain coolant pump to the superbottle , and then remove the pump from the superbottle .
put a coolant drain underneath the front drive unit .
remove the rh front wheel arch liner . see wheel arch liner front lh .
release the clip that connects the lh car computer coolant hose to the car computer coolant port , and then disconnect the hose .
place the end of the overflow hose of the vacuum refill tool into the empty container .
release the spring clip to disconnect the powertrain return hose at the rh side of the vehicle , and then plug the female side of the hose .
type '' vcfront '' into the search field .
remove and discard any orings or debris in the superbottle where the coolant pump will install .
put a foldable funnel under the front drive unit inverterheat exchanger hose at the heat exchanger coolant coupling side . note prevent the spill of coolant on the 12v connection to the front drive unit oil pump , the rh half shaft and the steering rack .
fully raise the vehicle , and then position a coolant drain container underneath the rh front side of the hv battery .
release the clip that connects the rh car computer coolant hose to the car computer coolant port , and then disconnect the hose .
connect the supply air line to the vacuum refill tool and make sure the minimum pressure is 5.5 bar .
attach a powertrain drain fitting adapter to the male side of the powertrain return hose , and then attach a hose extension to the adapter .
click the play button next to `` testreset_vcfront '' , and then select run .
make sure that new orings are installed onto the new coolant pump .
release the clip that attaches the front drive unit inverterheat exchanger hose to the heat exchanger coolant coupling , and then disconnect the hose . note allow the coolant to drain .
release the clip to separate the front drive unit inverter coolant inlet hose , and then drain the coolant into the coolant drain container .
open the air inlet valve and allow the tool to evacuate the cooling system for 10 seconds , and then fully close the valve . note the vacuum should stabilize at approximately 27 to 24 inhg or 70 to 60 cmhg .
attach the hose extension to the coolant cart drain hose .
lubricate the orings with silaramic lubricant .
install plugs to the open front drive unit inverterheat exchanger hose and the heat exchanger coolant coupling .
plug the female side of the front drive unit inverter coolant inlet hose .
install the car computer coolant plug .
d isconnect the electrical harness from the hv battery coolant pump connector .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the hv battery coolant pump to the superbottle , and then remove the pump from the superbottle .
remove and discard any orings or debris in the superbottle where the coolant pump will install .
connect the electrical harness to the power train coolant pump connector .
connect the electrical harness to the superbottle level sensor connector .
connect the sensor for the chiller to battery hose and the sensor for the pt supply hose .
fasten the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the liquid suction line .
install the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the rh side of the superbottle .
slowly open the coolant refill valve to allow coolant to be drawn into the coolant refill hose , close the valve when the hose is full of coolant note this purges trapped air from the hose
overlap from ac refrigerant recovery
connect the coolant reservoir level sensor connector , and install the clip that secures the harness on top of the coolant reservoir .
connect the electrical harness to the hv battery coolant pump connector .
monitor gauge for 30 seconds to verify a vacuum is maintained in the cooling system
position the shock tower brace assembly for installation .
connect the radiator outlet hose to the front right of the superbottle , and then fasten the clip .
connect the powertrain pumpsill connector hose to the superbottle , and then install the clip .
select `` testself_vcfront_x_fivewayvalve '' , click run and allow routine to complete_ note select `` x '' at top right of window to close once complete
reopen the air inlet valve for 3 minutes to continue evacuating cooling system , then close valve
remove supermanifold to compressor suction line from compressor note 1x nut , 13mm , 22 nm
install the lh and rh bolts that attach the shock tower brace to the body . 67 nm 67 nm
connect the radiator inlet hose to the front left of the superbottle , and then fasten the clip .
connect the electrical harness to the powertrain pumpsill connector hose coolant temperature sensor .
select `` actions/autodiag '' tab and search for `` purge ''
slowly open the coolant refill valve to allow coolant to be drawn into the system note make sure end of coolant refill hose is fully submerged during entire process
remove supermanifold to compressor discharge line from compressor note 1x nut , 13mm , 22 nm
install the lh and rh outer bolts that attach the shock tower brace to the body . 62 nm
connect the coolant hose from the chiller and exv assembly , and then fasten the clip .
connect the electrical harness to the powertrain coolant pump connector .
once the gauge reads zero , close the coolant refill valve
install the 12v battery into the vehicle . see 12v/lv battery .
install the battery vent hose to the chiller and exv assembly hose , and then fasten the clip that attaches the battery vent hose to the chiller and exv assembly hose .
inspect coolant level and top off as necessary note ensure that the fluid level is at the max line
disconnect shop air supply from coolant refill tool
remove supermanifold to compressor ac line assembly from supermanifold and remove out of vehicle
position the battery tie down strip onto the battery and install the bolt that secures the upper tie down strap to the a/c compressor bracket .
install the electrical harness to the chiller and exv assembly hose , and then fasten the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the hose
connect the coolant hose to the chiller and exv assembly , and then install the clip . note perform a pushpull test on the hose to verify that the hose is fully attached .
install coolant bottle cap
remove coolant refill hose from coolant container
loosen nut securing supermanifold to hvac ac line assembly to supermanifold note 1x nut , 13mm , 27 nm , loosen nut but do not remove , remove nut at later step
remove fluid catcher from underneath the vehicle .
connect the electrical harness to the chiller and exv assembly hose coolant temperature sensor connector .
connect the electrical harness to the chiller and exv assembly hose coolant temperature sensor .
remove coolant overflow hose from coolant container
remove bolts securing supermanifold to hvac ac line assembly to hvac assembly note 2x bolts , 13mm , 22 nm
fully raise the vehicle . see raise vehicle 2 post lift .
fasten the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the lower lh side of the superbottle .
connect the radiator outlet hose to the front right of the superbottle , and then install the clip .
remove vacuum refill hose from refill cap on coolant bottle note push down on black ring to release hose and pull hose up to remove
remove bolts securing supermanifold to shock tower beam and remove supermanifold from vehicle note 2x bolts , 15 mm , 31 nm , recommend assistance , rotate the supermanifold counter clockwise under the shock tower support beam
fully raise the vehicle , and then position a coolant drain container underneath the lh front side of the hv battery .
slowly open the coolant refill valve to draw coolant into the coolant refill hose . close the valve when the hose is full of coolant .
release the spring clip to disconnect the rear powertrain supply hose at the rh side of the vehicle , and then plug the male side of the hose .
heat pump vehicles only : after the air purge routine is complete , inspect the coolant bottle fluid level and add coolant to the max line .
place an absorbent material underneath the coolant pump . note make sure the material covers the front drive unit 12v connector , steering rack , and is positioned to catch fluid from the heat exchanger coolant outlet .
position the outlet of the coolant pump in the up position , and then insert the coolant pump into the superbottle .
put a shop towel underneath the front drive unit upper inverter coolant coupling . note make sure the towel protects the inverter connectors .
install the clips that secure te hv battery return hose to the body .
release the clip that attaches the front drive unit inverter inlet hose to the vehicle .
connect the radiator inlet hose to the front left of the superbottle , and then install the clip .
lift the coolant refill tool above coolant container to allow excess coolant to drain from hoses note may need to reopen valves to remove all coolant
remove nut securing supermanifold to hvac ac line assembly to supermanifold and remove supermanifold to hvac ac line assembly note 1x nut , 13mm , 27 nm
release the clips that attach the chillercar computer and hv battery supply manifold hose to the vehicle .
monitor the gauge for 30 seconds to verify that vacuum is maintained in the cooling system .
attach a powertrain flush fitting adapter to the female side of the rear powertrain supply hose .
nonheat pump vehicles only : after the air purge routine is complete , inspect the superbottle fluid level , and add coolant to approximately 6 mm above the max line .
release the locking tab , and then disconnect the electrical harness from the powertrain coolant pump connector . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector .
make sure that the coolant pump is fully seated in the superbottle .
release the clip that attaches the front drive unit inverterheat exchanger hose to the inverter coolant coupling , and then disconnect the hose .
release the clip that attaches the front drive unit inverter inlet hose to the front subframe .
remove the plugs from the front drive unit heat exchangersuperbottle hose and coolant port .
install fresh intake duct note set clips on bulkhead studs
remove both coolant containers from inside underhood area
document old and new part numbers and serial numbers for supermanifold note label is located in front of accumulator , document part numbers and serial numbers into the repair order
release the clip that connects the chillercar computer and hv battery supply manifold hose to the hv battery supply manifold .
open the air inlet valve for 3 minutes to continue evacuating the cooling system , and then close the valve .
attach the powertrain flush fitting adapter to the coolant pressure tester on the coolant cart , and then preset the pressure regulator valve .
install the cap on the super/coolant bottle reservoir .
remove the bolts that attach the powertrain coolant pump to the supermanifold , and then remove the pump from the supermanifold . caution make sure the inner and outer orings are removed with the coolant pump . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : t20 socket 2 in extension
handtighten new screws to attach the coolant pump to the superbottle .
release the clips that attach the front drive unit inverterheat exchanger hose to the exterior of the front drive unit , and then remove the hose from the front drive unit .
remove the plug , and then connect the hv battery return hose . note perform pushpullpush test to make sure that the hose is fully engaged .
release the clip that attaches the front drive unit inverter inlet hose to the exterior of the front drive unit gearbox . figure 1 . other assemblies hidden for clarity
connect the powertrain pump to sill connector hose to the rear right of the superbottle , and then fasten the clip .
connect the front drive unit heat exchangersuperbottle hose to the heat exchanger , and then install the clip .
install frunk assembly to vehicle note 10x clips , make sure frunk assembly is fully seated onto the clips , number of clips may vary on newer vehicles
overlap from a/c vacuum and leak test note subtract time spent on other operations while waiting for a/c vacuum and leak test to complete
replace seal washers on supermanifold to hvac ac line assembly on supermanifold side note 5x seal washers
plug the hv battery supply manifold .
slowly open the coolant refill valve to draw coolant into the cooling system . when the gauge reaches zero , close the valve . note make sure the end of the coolant refill hose is fully submerged during the entire process .
attach a compressed air line to the coolant pressure tester . note make sure the valve on the pressure regulator is closed .
tighten the coolant pump screws in a crosspattern . 1.8 nm
bring the front drive unit inverterheat exchanger hose to the exterior of the front drive unit , and then fasten the clips that attach the hose to the front drive unit .
release the clip that connects the front drive unit inverter inlet hose to the front drive unit inverter coolant coupling , and then remove the hose from the vehicle .
connect the electrical harness to the powertrain pump to sill hose coolant temperature sensor connector .
remove the coolant drain container from underneath the vehicle , and then install the front aero shield panel . see panel aero shield front .
install fasteners securing the frunk assembly note 7x bolts , 10mm , 5 nm , lift up the rbn cover to access the front fasteners , newer vehicles may not be equipped with covers
replace seal washers on supermanifold to hvac ac line assembly on hvac side note 5x seal washers
fully raise the vehicle , and then position a coolant drain container underneath the lh front side of the hv battery .
release the clip that attaches the chillercar computer and hv battery supply manifold hose to the 12v battery bracket .
disconnect the supply air line from the tool .
open the valve on the powertrain drain fitting adapter .
connect the electrical harness to the coolant pump connector .
remove the plug from the heat exchanger coolant coupling .
connect the front drive unit hv harness connector and lock the release tab .
position the front drive unit inverter inlet hose to the vehicle , and then install the clip that connects the hose to the front drive unit inverter coolant coupling . caution perform a pushpull test to verify that the hose is fully seated .
fasten the clip that attaches the battery return hose to the superbottle .
install new orings onto the suction/liquid line fitting , install the suction/liquid line fitting into the chiller and exv assembly , and then install the bolt that attaches the suction/liquid line to the chiller and exv assembly . 22 nm
install frunk close out panel note 4x clips , 1x connector , frunk safety switch , 3x guide tabs , align the 3x tabs then push downward to secure clips
use oil injector to add measured amount of oil back to the system note use calculated oil lost measurement and add new nd11 oil into the system , calculate oil loss during recovery and add 20 ml to compensate for estimated oil loss in chiller , if more than 30 ml drained out during recovery refer to drained oil loss chart
install supermanifold to hvac ac line assembly to supermanifold and install nut hand tight note 1x nut , 13mm , 27 nm , torque at later step
release the clips that attach the chiller to car computer and hv battery supply manifold hose to the vehicle . note the number of clips may vary depending on vehicle production date .
release the clip that attaches the chillercar computer and hv battery supply manifold hose to the 12v battery beam .
remove the coolant refill hose from the coolant container .
slowly open the valve on the pressure regulator and allow coolant to drain out of the powertrain return hose .
connect the front drive unit inverterheat exchanger hose to the heat exchanger coolant coupling , and then fasten the clip that attaches the hose to the coupling . caution perform a pushpull test to verify that the hose is fully seated .
install the bolt that secures the front drive unit hv harness to the front drive unit .
install the clip that attaches the front drive unit inverter inlet hose to the exterior of the front drive unit gearbox . figure 2 . other assemblies hidden for clarity
connect the battery return hose to the rear left of the superbottle , and then fasten the clip .
install the shock tower brace . see brace shock tower .
install cabin intake upper duct assembly note 3x clips , older vehicles may be equipped with 4x clips
install the supermanifold into the vehicle and install the bolts securing the supermanifold to the shock tower beam note 2x bolts , 15mm , 31 nm , recommend assistance , rotate the supermanifold counter clockwise and install under the shock tower support beam , hand start bolts to supermanifold
release the clip that connects the chiller tocar computer and hv battery supply manifold hose to the hv battery supply manifold .
remove the coolant overflow hose from the coolant container .
close the valve on the pressure regulator when no more coolant is draining from the powertrain return hose .
position the outlet of the coolant pump in the up position , and then insert the coolant pump into the supermanifold .
if the vehicle is equipped with dual motors , perform these steps . otherwise , go to step 11 . remove the plugs from the front drive unit heat exchanger to superbottle hose and the heat exchanger coolant outlet . connect the front drive unit heat exchanger to superbottle hose to the heat exchanger coolant outlet , and then fasten the clip . remove the foldable funnel from underneath the front drive unit heat exchanger .
remove the foldable funnel from underneath the front drive unit inverterheat exchanger hose at the heat exchanger coolant coupling side .
slide the intermediate shaft towards the front of the vehicle .
install the clip that attaches the front drive unit inverter inlet hose to the front subframe .
connect the powertrain supply hose at the lower lh side of the superbottle , and then fasten the clip .
connect the a/c lines to the vehicle , and then initiate an a/c vacuum and leak test .
torque nut securing supermanifold to hvac ac line assembly to supermanifold note 1x nut , 13mm , 27 nm
remove the chillercar computer and hv battery supply manifold hose from the vehicle .
remove the vacuum refill hose from the refill cap on the coolant bottle .
remove the powertrain flush fitting adapter from the female side of the powertrain supply hose .
make sure that the coolant pump is fully seated in the supermanifold .
connect the front drive unit inverterheat exchanger hose to the inverter coolant coupling , and then fasten the clip that attaches the hose to the coupling . caution perform a pushpull test to verify that the hose is fully seated .
release the lh front wheel liner from the bungee strap .
remove the plug , and then install the clip to reconnect the front drive unit inverter inlet hose . caution perform a pushpull test to verify that the hose is fully seated .
install the 12v battery . see 12v/lv battery .
install supermanifold to hvac ac line assembly to hvac assembly note 2x bolts , 13 mm , 22 nm
release the clip that attaches the chiller to car computer and hv battery supply manifold hose to the 12v battery bracket .
remove the vacuum refill cap from the coolant bottle . note push down on the black ring to release the hose , and then pull the hose upward to remove it .
remove the powertrain drain fitting adapter from the male side of the powertrain return hose .
remove the shop towel from underneath the front drive unit upper inverter coolant coupling .
install the push clips that secure the lh front wheel arch liner to the body .
install the clip that attaches the front drive unit inverter inlet hose the vehicle .
when the a/c vacuum and leak test is complete , recharge the refrigerant . see a/c refrigerant .
raise lh front window
release the clip that attaches the chiller to car computer and hv battery supply manifold hose to the 12v battery beam .
lift the coolant refill tool above the coolant container to allow excess coolant to drain from the hoses . note reopen the valves to remove excess coolant if necessary .
remove the plugs and attach the spring clips to reconnect both powertrain coolant hoses .
tighten the coolant pump screws in a crosspattern . 1.8 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : t20 socket 2 in extension
install the front aero shield . see panel aero shield front . note apply loctite 222 onto the front aero shield bolts , and then install the bolts .
connect 12v power . see 12v/lv power . note do not install the rear apron at this time .
close lh front door
release the clips that attach the chiller tocar computer and hv battery supply manifold hose to the vehicle .
remove both coolant containers from the vehicle .
remove the powertrain drain fitting adapter from the cart drain hose , and then remove the powertrain flush fitting adapter from the cart pressure hose .
connect the electrical harness to the coolant pump connector , and then engage the locking tab . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push down or pull up on the red locking tab .
lower the vehicle until the tires are toouching the ground . see raise vehicle 2 post lift .
install the rh front wheel arch liner . see wheel arch liner front lh .
remove the chiller to car computer and hv battery supply manifold hose from the vehicle .
position the coolant drain container underneath the lh front side of the hv battery .
remove the coolant drain material from under the vehicle .
install the cabin intake duct assembly . see duct cabin intake .
slide the intermediate shaft assembly downwards to install it to the steering gear assembly , and then install the bolt that secures the intermediate shaft to the steering rack assembly .
position the rh front wheel on the vehicle , and then handtighten the wheel lug nuts .
after the a/c refrigerant recharge has fully completed , verify the operation of the a/c system .
connect a charge cable to the vehicle .
install clip securing thermal sub assembly harness to front harness guide cover note 1x clip
before installing the underhood storage unit , fill the superbottle to the appropriate level . note make sure that the fluid level is 5 mm above the max line .
release the spring clip to disconnect the hv battery return hose at the lh side of the vehicle , and then plug the male side of the hose .
fill up the coolant reservoir upto the max level .
connect thermal sub assembly connector to front controller note 1x connector , engage locking lever
in toolbox , click the actions/autodiag tab , and then search for `` purge '' .
attach the battery drain fitting adapter to the female side of the hv battery return hose , and then attach the battery drain fitting adapter to the coolant cart drain hose .
remove the coolant bottle cap , and then fill the coolant to the `` max '' line .
inspect the coolant level and top off , if needed . note make sure that the fluid level is 5mm above the max line .
connect 12v power , see 12v/lv power .
lower the vehicle , and then tighten the rh front wheel lug nuts . see wheel . note use only hand tools to remove or install the fasteners . do not use impact or power tools . note use a 6 point socket . do not use a 12 point socket or a specialty socket .
using toolbox , run the 5way valve actuator selftest , `` testself_vcfront_x_fivewayvalve . '' note this toolbox routine tests and calibrates the 5way valve actuator .
select `` actions/autodiag '' tab and search for `` purge ''
connect the hv battery return hose to the supermanifold note 1x spring clip , perform pushpullpush test to make sure hose is fully seated
release the spring clip to disconnect the hv battery supply hose , and then plug female side of the hose .
install the 12v/lv battery . see 12v/lv battery
if equipped , install the rh front wheel center cap . see cap wheel .
connect the powertrain supply hose to the supermanifold note 1x spring clip , perform pushpullpush test to make sure hose is fully seated
inspect the coolant level , top off as necessary , and then install the coolant bottle cap . note ensure that the coolant level is at the `` max '' line .
release the clips that attach the chiller hose to the body .
connect the 12v negative terminal .
inspect coolant level , top up to the max line on the reservoir as required , and then install the coolant reservoir cap .
when the thermal performance test is complete , disconnect the charge cable from the vehicle .
remove the laptop from the vehicle .
attach a battery flush fitting adapter to the male side of the hv battery supply hose .
click the actions/autodiag tab and search for purge .
instal the underhood storage unit . see underhood storage unit .
refill the cooling system . see cooling system .
attach the battery flush fitting adapter to the coolant cart pressure hose .
use oil injector to add measured amount of oil back to the system note use calculated oil lost measurement and add new nd11 oil into the system , calculate oil loss during recovery and add 20 ml to compensate for estimated oil loss in liquid cooled condenser , if more than 30 ml drained out during recovery refer to drained oil loss chart
recover the a/c refrigerant . see a/c refrigerant . note completely recover the refrigerant before continuing this procedure .
open the valve on the battery drain fitting adapter .
remove the clips securing the coolant hose to ac compressor bracket note 2x clips
in toolbox , select autodiag and type `` cooling system '' into the search field .
slowly open the valve on the pressure regulator and allow coolant to drain out of the hv battery return hose .
perform the a/c refrigerant recovery . see a/c refrigerant .
remove rear battery tie down strap note rotate forward to disengage
from under the vehicle , disconnect the electrical harness from the 5way valve actuator connector .
recover the a/c refrigerant . see a/c refrigerant . note the following steps can be performed while the refrigerant is recovered .
disconnect the electrical connector to the low pressure pressure and temperature sensor .
close the valve on the pressure regulator when no more coolant is draining from the hv battery return hose .
inspect the coolant level and top off as necessary . note ensure that the coolant is filled to the `` max '' line .
release 12v battery vent tube from battery bracket note 1x fir tree clip
remove the bolts that attach the underhood reinforcement bracket to the body , and then remove the bracket from the cooling fan module .
release the clips that attach the active grille shutter to the cooling fan module , and then remove the active grille shutter from the module .
remove the screws that attach the 5way valve actuator to the 5way valve cover , and then remove the actuator from the valve cover . note the end of the stem shell shaft is exposed .
remove the nuts that attach the superbottle to the brace . 8 nm
remove the cap from the superbottle .
remove the inner hvac plenum duct . see duct hvac plenum inner .
remove the low pressure pressure and temperature sensor from the pipe . 7 nm
disconnect the compressed air line from the coolant pressure tester .
disconnect the electrical harness from the high pressure pressure and temperature sensor .
remove fastener securing ac compressor hv harness bracket to ac compressor note 1x bolt , 13mm , 9 nm
remove ac hoses from vehicle .
remove the cap from the lh side of the condenser .
remove the screws that attach the radiator to the cooling fan module . 10 nm
examine the end the of the 5way valve stem shell shaft . one shaft spline is slightly wider than the others .
remove the bolts that attach the battery bracket to the shock tower brace . 15 nm
set a container having at least 15 l of coolant in front of the thermal beam and on top of the fan module .
remove the cover for the 12v positive terminal .
perform an a/c refrigerant recharge . see a/c refrigerant .
remove the battery drain fitting adapter from the female side of the hv battery return hose .
remove the high pressure pressure and temperature sensor from the discharge pipe . 7 nm
in toolbox , click the actions/autodiag tab , and then search for `` pump '' .
remove ac compressor ground strap note 1x bolt , t25 , 7 nm
carefully depress the schrader valves to release vacuum from ac lines .
use an 11 mm socket to slightly depress the inner cap in the condenser for snap ring removal .
remove the nut that attaches the a/c suction line to the condenser fan module and remove the line . 22 nm
release the clip that attaches the radiator to the cooling fan module , and then remove the radiator from the cooling fan module .
mark the wider spline .
make sure that the end of the coolant refill hose of the vacuum refill tool is fully submerged in the coolant container .
loosen the nut that attaches the positive harness to the battery , and then remove the harness from the battery .
remove the battery flush fitting adapter from the male side of the hv battery supply hose .
in toolbox click testself_vcfront_x_coolant_pumps_identification , click ‘ run ’ , and allow routine to complete
move both front seats to their original position .
remove the clip securing the coolant hose to the ac compressor bracket note 1x fir tree clip
if present , remove and discard the dust cap from the accumulator . note use of the following tool is recommended : torx t30 socket 3 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
remove the snap ring from the condenser .
release the clips that attach the outer plenum to the inner plenum , and remove the outer plenum .
release the clips that attach the condenser to the cooling fan module , and then remove the condenser from the cooling fan module .
release the connector lock , and then disconnect the active grille shutter electrical connector . caution do not push down on the red tab . pull the red tab to release the connector lock .
use the diverter valve wrench to align the 5way valve stem shell shaft with the 5way valve actuator for assembly . note when properly aligned , the actuator easily slides over the stem shell shaft .
plug the superbottle weep hole with a piece of butyl rope .
release the clip that attaches the suction/liquid lines to the electrical harness near the txv .
remove the plug and reconnect the hv battery to battery chiller hoses .
raise all windows and close all doors .
disconnect hv harness connector from ac compressor note 1x locking electrical connector , 3 stage locking connector , see photos for connector positions , move black locking tab away form the ac compressor , position 1 , then using a 45 degree pick , push down on position 2 of the locking connector while prying up on position 3 and disconnect
remove and discard the accumulator cap snap ring .
thread an m8 x 1.25mm bolt into the inner cap , and use the bolt to pull out the inner cap .
remove the nuts that attach the inner plenum to the hvac assembly , and remove the plenum .
remove the ambient temperature sensor cover from the active griller shutter , and then disconnect the sensor electrical connector .
install the 5way valve actuator on the 5way valve cover , and then install the screws that attach the actuator on the cover . 2 nm
release the shock tower brace using the inflatable air bag . tip : use a flat head screwdrive to lift the the shock tower brace , and then place the inflatable air bag on both ends of the shock tower brace .
attach the vacuum refill tool to the superbottle with the conical adapter .
disconnect the electrical harness from the txv valve connector .
remove the plug and reconnect the hv battery return hose .
remove ac compressor hv harness from the ac compressor and set aside note move ac compressor hv harness bracket toward the front of the vehicle , lift the bracket up to clear the upper bracket mount and carefully set harness and bracket aside
use needle nose pliers to remove and discard the accumulator cap .
remove the desiccant bag from the condenser .
remove the nut that attaches the liquid line to the txv , and remove the line from the txv . 22 nm
support the a/c compressor to the thermal beam .
release the clip that attaches the front harness to the front underhood storage unit reinforcement bracket .
make sure that coolant refill valve and air inlet valve of the vacuum refill tool are both closed .
after the refrigerant has been fully recovered , remove the nut that attaches the suction/liquid lines fitting to the txv valve , and then remove the fitting from the txv valve .
install the clips that attach the battery chiller hose to the body .
select `` actions/autodiag '' tab and search for `` purge '
remove the fasteners securing the ac compressor bracket to the strut tower support brace and remove the ac compressor and ac compressor bracket assembly note 2x bolts , 15mm , 31 nm , recommend assistance , support the ac compressor while removing the fasteners , carefully remove the ac compressor and ac compressor bracket towards the front of the vehicle , under the strut tower support brace
use needle nose pliers to remove the desiccant bag from the accumulator .
use the desiccant filter removal tool with a slide hammer to remove the desiccant filter screen .
remove the nut that attaches the liquid line to the compressor , and remove the line from the compressor . 22 nm
remove the bolts that attach the a/c compressor mount to the a/c compressor . 10 nm
remove the bolts that attach the underhood storage unit reinforcement bracket to the cooling fan , and then slide the bracket rearward for clearance . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension
place the end of the overflow hose of the vacuum refill tool into an empty container .
remove and discard the orings from the suction/liquid lines fitting .
remove the ac compressor bracket from the ac compressor note 3x bolts , 10mm , 9 nm
weigh the desiccant bag . this is considered the `` wet weight . ''
use 3/8 inch extensions to press the new desiccant filter into the condenser . lightly tap with a hammer to fully seat the filter .
disconnect the harness connector from the low pressure transducer .
remove the bolts that attach the a/c compressor mount to the thermal beam , and then remove the a/c compressor mount from the vehicle . 10 nm
disconnect the electrical harness from the 5way valve actuator connector . tip : lift the superbottle for better access .
remove the bolts that attach the txv valve to the hvac module , and then remove the txv valve from the hvac module .
remove the battery drain fitting adapter from the cart drain hose , and then remove the battery flush fitting adapter from the cart pressure hose .
position the outlet of the coolant pump in the up position , and insert the coolant pump into the superbottle .
remove nvh acoustic cover from ac compressor note nvh acoustic cover must be removed to properly weigh compressor
determine the `` dry weight '' of the desiccant bag : inspect the bag for a label that contains the part number , serial number , and dry weight . if the label is missing , or if the dry weight is not visible , assume the dry weight is 90.4 grams .
insert a new desiccant bag into the condenser .
release the clip that attaches the lines to the superbottle .
remove the front valance . see valance front fascia .
remove the screws that attach the 5way valve actuator to the 5way valve cover .
open the air inlet valve and allow the tool to evacuate the cooling system for 10 seconds .
remove and discard the orings from the hvac module .
release the bungee straps and install the push clips that attach the lower rear edge of the lh and rh front wheel liners to the vehicle . figure 2 . lh side shown , rh similar
make sure that the coolant pump is fully seated in the superbottle .
remove nvh cover material from compressor note remove as much material of the nvh acoustic cover as possible , excessive material left on ac compressor will cause an inaccurate weight measurement
subtract the dry weight from the wet weight . this is the amount of oil that must be added to the system in addition to the oil that was removed during refrigerant recovery . note this amount for later .
install the inner cap into the condenser , and press it in just below the groove for the snap ring .
remove the bolt that attaches the lines to the shock tower brace . 5.5 nm
remove the nut that attaches the compressortocondenser high pressure pipe to the cooling fan module , and then release the pipe . 22 nm
place coolant drain container underneath the lh front of the vehicle .
remove the 5way valve actuator from the 5way valve cover .
install new orings onto the hvac module .
handtighten new screws to attach the coolant pump to the superbottle .
weigh compressor and reset compressor oil amount note weight measured in grams , take note of the compressor weight , add nd11 oil through suction port of compressor until it weighs 7193 grams
install the desiccant bag in the accumulator . note make sure the tab on the desiccant bag faces upward .
remove the bolt from the inner cap .
remove the bolt that attaches the liquid line to the exv chiller assembly , and remove the line from the exv . 22 nm
remove the oring from the cooling fan module pipe .
release the clip that attaches the radiator inlet hose to the cooling fan module , disconnect the hose , allow the coolant to drain , and then plug the male and female fittings .
use the diverter valve wrench to align the larger stemshell shaft spline with the larger recess on the 5way valve actuator , and then position the 5way valve actuator on the 5way valve cover . caution very little force is needed to mate the actuator to the cover . if the actuator does not mate to the cover easily , remove the actuator and check the stemshell shaft alignment . figure 1 . one spline is larger than the other splines figure 2 . position the actuator on the valve cover
install the txv valve onto the hvac module , and then install the bolts that attach the txv valve to the hvac module . 7.2 nm
tighten the coolant pump screws in a crosspattern .
without removing the adhesive backing , perform a test fitting of an acoustic blanket on the a/c compressor , making sure the blanket properly fits around all mounts , pipes , and electrical connections .
lubricate the new accumulator cap orings with nd11 oil , and then install the cap on the accumulator .
install the snap ring into the condenser , and make sure the snap ring is fully seated into the groove .
remove the lines from the vehicle .
lower the vehicle to access the hood area .
place coolant drain container underneath the rh front side of the vehicle .
install the screws that attach the 5way valve actuator to the 5way valve cover . 2 nm
open the air inlet valve for at least 3 minutes , and when the gauge stops rising , close the valve .
install new orings onto the suction/liquid lines fitting .
connect the electrical harness to the coolant pump connector .
install the new accumulator cap snap ring . note make sure the snap ring is fully seated in the groove on the inside of the accumulator barrel .
install the cap . 4 nm
after installing the lines , refill the refrigerant . see a/c refrigerant .
remove the bolt that attaches the suction/liquid lines bracket to the shock tower brace , and then release the bracket from the shock tower brace . 5.5 nm
disconnect the electrical harness from the cooling fan module connector .
release the clip that attaches the radiator outlet hose from the cooling fan module , disconnect the hose , allow the coolant to drain , and then plug the male and female fittings .
slowly open the coolant refill valve to draw coolant into the cooling system . when the gauge stops moving , close the valve .
install the suction/liquid lines fitting into the txv valve , and then install the nut that attaches the suction/liquid lines fitting to the txv valve . 22 nm
handtighten the new dust cap to the accumulator . nan nm note screw the dust cap until it bottoms out on the accumulator . note use of the following tool is recommended : torx t30 socket 3 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
install the underhood reinforcement bracket onto the cooling fan module . note the cooling fan module tab must be inserted into the isolator so that the trailing tab touches the isolator rubber and the chamfered edge is clearly visible when looking from above . note the trailing edge of the cooling fan module mount must contact the lower tunnel of the isolator .
disconnect the electrical connector from the low pressure transducer .
place coolant drain container underneath the lh front side of the vehicle .
disconnect the electrical harness from the cooling fan module connector . caution make sure to plug the coolant hoses before disconnecting the connector to avoid coolant damaging the connector .
open the air inlet valve for at least 3 minutes , and monitor the air bubbles seen in the superbottle .
perform the a/c refrigerant recharge concurrently with the remainder of this procedure . see a/c refrigerant .
disconnect battery coolant pump connector note 1x locking connector , do not push down on red tab , pull red tab to disengage lock , pull again to release connector
install ac hoses to the vehicle .
install the bolts that attach the underhood reinforcement bracket to the body . 16 nm
remove the bolt that attaches the liquid line to the chiller and exv assembly .
release the clip that attaches the radiator inlet hose to the cooling fan module , remove the hose , and then plug the hose .
remove the bolts that attach the lower lh and rh sides of the cooling fan module to the ankle catcher . note with assistance , lift up on the cooling fan module to ease the removal of the bolts . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 8 mm socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench 4 in extension figure 1 . lh side figure 2 . rh side
when air bubbles are no longer seen and the gauge stops rising , close the valve .
connect the electrical harness to the txv valve connector .
remove the outer hvac plenum duct . see duct hvac plenum outer .
position coolant drain container underneath battery coolant pump
initiate and complete the vacuum leak test , then return to this procedure . see vacuum leak test and oil injection .
loosen the bolts for the lh cooling fan module isolator .
remove the nut that attaches the pipe to the a/c compressor , and then release the pipe .
remove the cooling fan module assembly from the vehicle .
deflate and remove the air bag , and then replace the shock tower brace back to the original position .
remove the vacuum refill cap from the superbottle , lift the coolant refill hose from the container , and allow the hose to drain into the container .
fasten the clip that attaches the suction/liquid lines to the electrical harness near the txv .
remove the cap from the superbottle reservoir .
remove bolts securing battery coolant pump to supermanifold note 4x bolts , t20 , 1.8 nm
remove the low side ac hose from the supermanifold to hvac ac line assembly .
install the lh and rh outer bolts that attach the shock tower brace to the body .
fill a container with at least 15 l of coolant , and then place the container into the front storage area .
inject the amount of oil that was lost to : removal of the old desiccant bag . see step 11 . refrigerant recovery . see vacuum leak test and oil injection . caution do not forget to inject the amount of oil that was lost to removal of the old desiccant bag . failure to do so might cause catastrophic damage to the thermal system .
remove both coolant containers from the vehicle , and have a coolant refill bottle standing by .
fully submerge the coolant refill hose into the coolant container .
remove the active grille shutter . see active grille shutter .
remove the hvac assembly . see hvac assembly .
perform a calibration check of the a/c machine . refer to the a/c machine operator ’ s manual for instructions on how to perform a calibration check of the a/c machine . if the machine fails the calibration check , do not use the machine until a service representative has calibrated the a/c machine .
add coolant to the superbottle , so that the liquid level is approximately 6mm above the max line .
attach the vacuum refill tool to the superbottle . note use a cone shaped adapter to ensure vacuum will be pulled from the lower chamber .
release the upper and lower locking tabs that attach the radiator to the cooling fan and shroud assembly , and then remove the radiator from the cooling fan and shroud assembly .
put the hvac assembly on a working surface . make sure that the hvac assembly is on its side with the hvac inlet facing up .
recover the a/c refrigerant . see recovery . note recover the refrigerant while continuing this procedure .
inspect the entire length of the hoses and fittings for degradation , cracks , or damage . make sure that the condition of the hoses and fittings is such that they will not leak when in service .
remove the bolts and isolators from the cooling fan and shroud assembly .
remove the adhesive backing from the acoustic cover , and then place the cover on a work surface , adhesive side up .
align the a/c compressor mount and suction port with the acoustic blanket cutouts .
wrap the acoustic blanket around the a/c compressor , making sure the blanket fits around all ports and connections .
install the ac compressor bracket to the ac compressor note 3x bolts , 10mm , 9 nm
position the ac compressor and ac compressor bracket assembly to the strut tower support brace and secure note 2x bolts , 15mm , 31 nm , recommend assistance , support the ac compressor while installing the fasteners , carefully install the ac compressor and ac compressor bracket towards the rear of the vehicle , under the strut tower support brace , keep ac compressor caps on the compressor until manifold lines are installed , hand start bolts
push the isolator forward , and while doing so , tighten the bolts . 6 nm
disconnect the electrical connector from the high pressure transducer .
release the clip that attaches the radiator outlet hose from the cooling fan module , remove the hose , and then plug the hose .
with assistance , position the cooling fan module assembly into the vehicle , and then loosely install the bolts that attach the module assembly to the vehicle .
install the positive harness onto the battery , and tighten the nut that attaches the positive harness to the battery . 6 nm
position the ac compressor hv harness onto the ac compressor for installation note ensure the hv harness bracket engages the upper bracket mount on the ac compressor
remove battery coolant pump from supermanifold note make sure both orings come off with old pump
repeat step 9 and step 10 for the rh cooling fan module isolator .
remove the compressortocondenser high pressure pipe from the vehicle .
torque the bolts that attach the lh and rh of the cooling fan module to the vehicle . 10 nm note assistance is recommended to support the assembly . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 8 mm socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench 4 in extension figure 3 . lh side figure 4 . rh side
install the lh and rh bolts that attach the shock tower brace to the body .
install the cover for the 12v positive terminal .
connect hv harness connector to ac compressor note 1x locking electrical connector , 3 stage locking connector , after fully seating the connector onto the ac compressor engage the black locking tab by pushing toward the ac compressor , perform pushpullpush test to ensure proper seating
position battery coolant pump to supermanifold and install bolts hand tight note 4x bolts , t20 , 1.8 nm , lubricate both orings with silicone oring lubricant , refer to connector position and install coolant pump with connector tab facing up , recommend installing upper right bolt with coolant pump for easier installation , make sure the coolant pump is fully seated
install the low side ac hose to the supermanifold to hvac ac line assembly .
perform the a/c refrigerant recharge . see a/c refrigerant .
install the compressortocondenser high pressure pipe into the vehicle .
remove the nut that attaches the suction/liquid line to the cooling fan module , and then disconnect the a/c suction line .
remove the plugs from the radiator outlet hose , connect the male and female fittings , and then fasten the hose clip . note perform a pushpullpush test on the fittings to make sure that they are secure .
install the bolts that attach the battery bracket to the shock tower brace .
install the inner hvac plenum duct . see duct hvac plenum inner .
install fastener securing ac compressor hv harness bracket to ac compressor note 1x bolt , 13mm , 9 nm
torque bolts securing battery coolant pump to supermanifold note 4x bolts , t20 , 1.8 nm
connect the high pressure transducer electrical connector .
remove and discard the oring from the suction/liquid line .
remove the plugs from the radiator inlet hose , connect the male and female fittings , and then fasten the hose clip . note perform a pushpullpush test on the fittings to make sure that they are secure .
install the nuts that attach the superbottle to the shock tower brace .
return back to toolbox tab and the autodiag .
make sure the coolant refill valve and the air inlet valve are both closed .
install the clip securing the coolant hose to the ac compressor bracket note 1x fir tree clip
set the cabin air to hi temperature , maximum blower speed , and outside air intake , and then let the blower run for 8 minutes .
turn off a/c , set the cabin air to hi temperature , maximum blower speed and outside air intake , and then let the blower run for 8 minutes .
remove the cabin filters . see filter cabin .
connect battery coolant pump connector note 1x connector , engage locking tab
remove the txv oring seals from the hvac assembly .
inspect the a/c machine ’ s power supply cord and plug that they are not damaged and the insulation has not been compromised in any way .
install a new oring to the compressortocondenser high pressure pipe .
remove the nut that attaches the discharge line to the cooling fan module , and then disconnect the discharge line .
connect the electrical harness from the cooling fan module connector .
click the stop button to finish the thermal fill drain routine .
place the end of the overflow hose into an empty container .
install ac compressor ground strap note 1x bolt , t25 , 7 nm
remove the cabin filters . see remove .
power off the vehicle , and let the evaporator dry for 3 minutes .
release the clips that attach the ptc electrical harness to the hvac assembly , and the remove the ptc electrical harness from the hvac assembly .
remove the rear battery tie down strap from the 12v battery bracket . note the 12v battery bracket also functions as the a/c compressor bracket .
verify that the oil type is nd11 spec poe .
position the compressortocondenser high pressure pipe into the a/c compressor , and then install the nut that attaches the compressortocondenser high pressure pipe to the a/c compressor . 22 nm
remove and discard the oring from the discharge line .
install the front valance . see valance front fascia .
connect a charging cable to the vehicle .
connect shop air supply to the vacuum refill tool and set the minimum pressure to 5.5 bar .
install retaining clip securing ac compressor logic harness to ac compressor hv harness bracket note 1x fir tree clip
place a coolant drain container or absorbent material under the front of the vehicle .
remove the nut that attaches the supermanifold to compressor suction line to the compressor . note use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
apply tunap 996 hygienic fluid on a clean microfiber cloth , and then clean the inside of the air filter cover .
remove the screws that attach the ptc to the hvac assembly , and then pull out the ptc heater from the hvac assembly .
disconnect the electrical harness from the coolant temperature sensor connector .
release the clip that attaches the 12v battery vent tube to the 12v battery bracket .
position the compressortocondenser high pressure pipe into the exv assembly , and then install the bolt that attaches the liquid line to the chiller and exv assembly . 22 nm
if the penthouse cover was removed as part of another procedure , monitor the coolant input and output tubes and fittings for leaks during the air purge .
use toolbox to perform a thermal system performance test .
open the air inlet valve for 10 seconds to allow the vacuum tool to evacuate the cooling system and create a vacuum .
connect the ac compressor logic connector note 1x locking electrical connector , engage locking tab
protect all electrical components to avoid damage from overspray .
remove the nut that attaches the supermanifold to compressor discharge line to the compressor . note use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
install the supplied fog probe onto the hygienic cleaner can , and then spray the inside of the filter housing with hygienic cleaner . note spray the contents of the entire can of hygienic cleaner .
remove the screws that attach the lower evaporator cover to the hvac assembly , and then remove the lower evaporator cover from the hvac assembly .
release the clip that attaches the 12v battery vent tube to the battery bracket .
release the clips that attach the coolant hose to the 12v battery bracket .
remove the rear underhood storage unit . see underhood storage unit .
connect the electrical connector to the low pressure transducer .
with an assistant , put the cooling fan module into position from below the vehicle , and then handtighten the bolts that attach the bottom of the cooling fan module to the ankle catcher . note make sure that the lower seal from the cooling fan module and lower active shutter grille are sitting flush against each other .
lower the vehicle until the tires touch the ground .
remove the piece of butyl rope from the superbottle weep hole .
after successful completion of the test , disconnect the charging cable .
slowly open the coolant refill valve to allow coolant to be drawn into the coolant refill hose . close the valve when the hose is full of coolant . note this purges trapped air from the hose .
install the clips securing the coolant hoses to the ac compressor bracket note 2x clips
remove the caps from the a/c ports .
attach the hose to the evaporator cleaner bottle .
remove the bolts that attach the supermanifold to hvac a/c line to the hvac assembly . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket 6 in extension flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
remove the bolt that attaches the supermanifold to compressor a/c line to the supermanifold , and then remove the assembly from the vehicle . note use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench 6 in extension
let the hygienic cleaner dry for 10 minutes , and then install new cabin filters . see filter cabin .
remove the sealing ring from the hvac assembly .
disconnect the compressor hv electrical connector from the hv electrical harness .
release the retaining clips that attach the a/c compressor hv harness to the shock tower support brace . caution pull upward on the clip to assist with removal . do not pull upward on the hv cable .
connect to the vehicle using toolbox 3.0 .
position the suction/liquid lines bracket into the shock tower , and then install the bolt that attaches the suction/liquid lines bracket to the shock tower brace . 5.5 nm
tighten the lh and rh bolts that attach the lower portion of the cooling fan module to the ankle catcher . 10 nm lh side rh side
position the underhood storage unit reinforcement bracket onto the cooling fan , and then install the bolts that attach the bracket to the fan . 16 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension
add coolant to the superbottle , so that the liquid level is approximately 6mm above the max line , and then install the cap on the superbottle .
monitor the gauge for 30 seconds to verify a vacuum is maintained in the cooling system .
install rear battery tie down strap note insert assembly into bracket and rotate to 90 degrees
connect the hoses from the a/c machine to the vehicle , and then perform the a/c recovery . note record the amount of a/c refrigerant and oil that has been recovered after the a/c system is discharged .
insert the hose in the hvac filter housing , and then spray all of the cleaning solution on the evaporator . caution avoid overspray onto electrical components . note be sure to coat the entire evaporator with the cleaning solution .
remove the nut that attaches the supermanifold to hvac a/c line to the supermanifold . tip : this nut is behind the supermanifold to compressor a/c line . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket 6 in extension flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
position the supermanifold to compressor a/c line onto the supermanifold , and then hand tighten the bolt that attaches the a/c line to the supermanifold .
insert the probe in the hvac filter housing , and then spray all of the cleaning solution on the evaporator . note the spray holes in the probe should face to the rear of the vehicle , towards the evaporator . note be sure to coat the entire evaporator with the cleaning solution .
switch the hvac system to recirculated air mode .
remove the screws that attach the hvac inlet to the hvac assembly .
release the clips that attach the compressor hv electrical harness to the bulkhead .
place a coolant drain under the chiller and exv assembly , and absorbent material under the chiller and exv assembly hose fitting .
activate service mode plus , and then disconnect the laptop from the vehicle . see service mode plus .
install a new oring onto the discharge line , and then install the discharge line into the cooling fan module .
install the clip that attaches the front harness to the front underhood storage unit reinforcement bracket .
reopen the air inlet valve for 3 minutes to evacuate the cooling system , and then close the valve .
install 12v battery vent tube to battery bracket
perform the a/c system vacuum . note the a/c system vacuum takes 30 minutes to complete .
let the cleaning solution sit on the evaporator for 15 minutes . note while waiting , check under the vehicle and adjust the coolant drain container/absorbent material as necessary .
release the supermanifold to hvac a/c line from the supermanifold , and then move the a/c line rearwards and up to remove it .
tighten the bolt that attaches the supermanifold to compressor a/c line to the supermanifold . 22 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench 6 in extension
let the cleaning solution sit on the evaporator for 30 minutes . note while waiting , check under the vehicle and adjust the coolant drain container/absorbent material as necessary .
select the highest fan speed .
disconnect the electrical connector from the hvac inlet actuator .
disconnect the electrical harness from the high pressure transducer connector .
release the connector locking tab , and then disconnect the a/c compressor logic electrical connector from the a/c compressor . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector .
on the vehicle touchscreen , touch quick controls > service mode > diagnostics > thermal .
install the nut that attaches the compressortocondenser high pressure pipe to the cooling fan module . 22 nm
install the nut that attaches the discharge line to the cooling fan module . 22 nm
connect the ambient temperature sensor electrical connector , and then install the sensor cover onto the active griller shutter .
slowly open the coolant refill valve to allow coolant to be drawn in the cooling system . when the gauge stops moving , close the coolant refill valve . note make sure the end of the coolant refill hose is fully submerged during the entire process .
perform the a/c refrigerant refill .
once the cleaning solution has sat long enough , install new cabin filters . see install .
position the supermanifold to hvac a/c line on the supermanifold , inserting the a/c line stud into the stud hole on the supermanifold . tip : reach under the supermanifold to position the a/c line . tip : look through the supermanifold stud hole to help locate the a/c line stud .
install the nut that attaches the supermanifold to compressor discharge line to the compressor . 22 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
once the cleaning solution has sat long enough , install new cabin filters . see filter cabin .
connect first responder loop note 1x connector , engage locking tab , connect frl before connecting 12v to avoid damage to car computer
lift the side that covers the evaporator pipes , rotate the hvac inlet out of the retaining slots on the hvac assembly , and then remove the hvac inlet from the hvac assembly .
immediately install plugs into the male and female fittings of the chiller and exv assembly and hose to prevent further coolant loss .
release the clip that attaches the a/c compressor logic harness to the a/c compressor hv harness bracket .
install a new oring onto the suction/liquid line , and then install the suction line into the cooling fan module .
connect the active grille shutter electrical connector , and then engage the connector lock .
lift the coolant refill tool from the reservoir and hold above the coolant container to allow excess coolant to drain .
set the temperature to lo on both driver and passenger sides and set the a/c system to auto .
turn on the a/c , set the cabin air to lo temperature , maximum blower speed , and outside air intake .
install the nut that attaches the supermanifold to hvac a/c line to the supermanifold . 27 nm tip : this nut is behind the supermanifold to compressor a/c line . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket 6 in extension flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
install the nut that attaches the supermanifold to compressor suction line to the compressor . 22 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
turn on a/c , set the cabin air to lo temperature , maximum blower speed and outside air intake .
press the sprayhead until it clicks .
remove the screws that attach the upper evaporator cover to the hvac assembly .
disconnect the low voltage electrical connector from the compressor .
remove the bolt that attaches the ground strap to the a/c compressor , and then set the ground strap aside . 7 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t25 socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
on the touchscreen , check that the `` refrigerant ready for recharge/reclaim '' indicator is green .
install the nut that attaches the suction/liquid line to the cooling fan module . 22 nm
disconnect the shop air supply from the coolant refill tool .
use uv light and the uv inspection kit to check for a/c refrigerant leaks in the txv valve area . note if an a/c refrigerant leak is found , replace the txv valve . see txv valve evaporator .
the cleaning foam will exit through the hvac drain . continue to the next step once clean water is observed exiting the hvac drain .
install the bolts that attach the supermanifold to hvac a/c line to the hvac assembly . 22 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket 6 in extension flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
perform the vacuum leak test and oil injection procedure . see vacuum leak test and oil injection .
remove the upper evaporator cover from the hvac assembly by lifting the cover off of the hvac assembly .
remove the bolt that attaches the ground harness to the compressor . 6 nm
release the clip that attaches the coolant hose to the a/c compressor bracket , near the ground strap attachment point .
remove the caps from the a/c high pressure and low pressure ports .
after installing the suction/liquid line , recharge the refrigerant . see a/c refrigerant . note perform installation of components removed concurrently with refrigerant recharge .
remove both coolant containers from the front storage area .
use uv light and the uv inspection kit to check for a/c refrigerant leaks in the chiller and exv valve area . note if an a/c refrigerant leak is found , replace the chiller and exv valve . see chiller and exv assembly .
remove the coolant drain container/absorbent material from under the vehicle .
recharge the a/c refrigerant . see recharge .
open all doors to vent the interior .
slide the evaporator out of the hvac assembly , and then remove the evaporator from the hvac assembly .
release the clips that attach the low voltage electrical harness to the compressor and compressor bracket .
move the hv harness bracket forward and up to release the bracket from the a/c compressor , and then carefully set the bracket aside .
connect the red high pressure hose to the vehicle 's high pressure port , and the blue low pressure hose to the vehicle 's low pressure port . note the high pressure and low pressure ports are of different sizes , and match the hose couplers accordingly .
perform the a/c refrigerant . see a/c refrigerant .
position the coolant drain underneath the rh side of the vehicle .
type `` vcfront '' into the search field .
use uv light and the uv inspection kit to check for a/c refrigerant leaks in the compressor discharge and suction lines area . note if an a/c refrigerant leak is found , replace the compressor to condenser high pressure pipe . see pipe high pressure compressor to condenser .
install the new evaporator into the hvac assembly . caution do not damage the temperature sensor when installing the new evaporator into the hvac assembly . note make sure that the evaporator slides into the hvac assembly with the correct channels until the evaporator stops . the evaporator pipes must line up with the slots for the evaporator covers on the hvac assembly .
using a 45degree pick , simultaneously push on the central locking tab while pulling on the outer locking tab , and remove the hv connector from the a/c compressor .
with an assistant , remove the bolts that attach the a/c compressor assembly to the strut tower brace , and then carefully maneuver the assembly towards the front of the vehicle , under the strut tower support brace . rest the a/c compressor assembly on the front underhood storage unit reinforcement beam . 31 nm caution do not rest the a/c compressor on the hv connector . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
take note of the current oil level in the a/c machine oil tank , or understand how to use the a/c machine ui to note the amount of oil recovered after recovery is complete .
remove the hose plug , and then install the radiator outlet hose to the cooling fan module . secure the hose with clip .
use uv light and the uv inspection kit to check for a/c refrigerant leaks in the high/low pressure refrigerant pipes area . note if an a/c refrigerant leak is found , replace the high/low pressure refrigerant pipes . see pipes refrigerant high / low pressure .
install the screws that attach the evaporator upper cover to the hvac assembly . 1.4 nm
when refrigerant recovery has finished , remove the a/c machine hoses from the high and low pressure a/c ports on the vehicle .
with an assistant , remove the bolts that attach the a/c compressor bracket to the a/c compressor , and then remove the bracket from the compressor . 9 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
follow the a/c machine instructions for recovering refrigerant from the vehicle .
position the coolant drain underneath the lh side of the vehicle .
replace seal washer on supermanifold to compressor ac line assembly on compressor discharge line note 1x seal washer , lube seal washers with nd11 oil
install the hvac inlet onto the hvac assembly . note insert the 2 tabs into the slots on the hvac assembly at an angle , and then set flat onto the hvac assembly .
remove the nut that attaches the low pressure fitting to the a/c compressor . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
remove the bolts that attach the chiller and exv assembly to the superbottle , and then remove the chiller and exv assembly from the superbottle .
position the a/c compressor bracket on the a/c compressor , and then install the bolts that attach the bracket to the compressor . 9 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
measure the quantity of refrigerant recovered from the system . it should be approximately 1000 1040 g. record the quantity recovered in the notes section of the repair order .
remove the hose plug , and then install the radiator inlet hose to the cooling fan module . secure the hose with clip .
inspect coolant level and top off if necessary .
replace seal washer on supermanifold to compressor ac line assembly on compressor suction line note 1x seal washer , lube seal washers with nd11 oil
gently wipe off all contact surfaces of the vehicle interior , like : steering wheel stalks door handles and switches touchscreen seat belt tongue and buckle glove box lid center console lid etc .
install the screws that attach the hvac inlet to the hvac assembly . 1.4 nm
remove the nut that attaches the high pressure fitting to the a/c compressor , and then set the hose assembly aside . 22 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
install the chiller and exv assembly to the superbottle , and then install the bolts that attach the chiller and exv assembly to the superbottle . 15 nm
using a blow gun , clean the bolt holes that are used to attach the a/c compressor bracket to the front strut tower support brace .
on the vehicle touchcreen , verify that the system is in fill/drain mode . if the vehicle is not in fill/drain mode , activate fill/drain mode and verify that the green status indicator is present . note the status indicator will be red if the mode is inactive .
install the cap on the superbottle reservoir .
use uv light and the uv inspection kit to inspect both condenser connections and the condenser itself for a/c refrigerant leaks . note if an a/c refrigerant leak is found , replace the condenser . see condenser .
connect the hvac inlet actuator electrical connector .
position the flush adapters on the supermanifold to a/c compressor hose fittings , and then install the nuts that were removed in the previous 2 steps . 22 nm note do not remove the orings from the hose fittings . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench 3 in extension
with an assistant supporting the a/c compressor assembly under the strut tower brace , handstart the bolts that attach the a/c compressor assembly to the brace , and then torque the bolts . 31 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
on the a/c machine , enter 1.02 kg of `` refrigerant charge '' , and then select go .
connect the electrical harness to the cooling fan connector .
install the outer hvac plenum duct . see duct hvac plenum outer .
install supermanifold to compressor discharge line to compressor note 1x nut , 13mm , 22 nm
install the seal onto the hvac assembly around the evaporator pipes . note the seal should be flushed against the hvac assembly , even though the evaporator pipes are at an angle .
connect the a/c machine hoses to the a/c flush adapters .
install the clip that attaches the coolant hose to the a/c compressor bracket , near the ground strap attachment point .
perform steps 13 as instructed by the a/c machine . after completing step 3 , touch next to begin the vacuum leak test .
install supermanifold to compressor suction line to compressor note 1x nut , 13mm , 22 nm
install the screws that attach the lower evaporator cover onto the hvac assembly . 1.4 nm note make sure that the dowels on the lower evaporator cover engage the hvac assembly .
from the main menu of the a/c flush machine , touch next > menu > system flush , set the `` flush time '' to 30 minutes , and then touch the green check mark to begin the flush . note the flush must be performed with the robinair 34988ni . note prior to flushing , make sure at least 13 lbs of refrigerant are in the flush machine tank . note the entire flush procedure will last about 90 minutes .
position the ground strap on the a/c compressor , and then install the bolt that attaches the ground strap to the a/c compressor . 7 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t25 socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
the a/c machine will pull vacuum for 5 minutes , and then perform a vacuum decay test for another 5 minutes . caution after the vacuum test ends , do not touch next on the a/c machine . oil injection , described in the following steps , must be performed before touching next .
place empty coolant container into front storage area
lower the vehicle .
install the ptc heater into the hvac assembly . note the ptc heater will slide into the hvac assembly one way only .
remove the nut that attaches the discharge line to the compressor , and then remove the discharge line from the compressor .
measure the quantity of oil recovered from the vehicle 's a/c system by comparing the level change in the oil recovery tank . refer to the table below to determine the quantity of oil to add to the a/c system during recharge , assuming that no components are being replaced . amount of drained oil from a/c machine in grams or ml amount of oil to add to a/c system during recharge in grams or ml 10 10 20 20 30 30 40 42 50 55 60 67 70 80 80 92 90 105 100 117 110 130 120 142 130 155 140 167 150 180
lower the vehicle fully .
remove the vehicle from the lift .
install the screws that attach the ptc heater to the hvac assembly . 2.9 nm
with an assistant supporting the a/c compressor assembly , remove the bolts that attach the a/c compressor assembly to the strut tower brace , and then remove the a/c compressor assembly from the vehicle . 31 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
in addition to the previous step , add an additional amount of oil if the component being serviced is listed in the following table : serviced component additional amount of oil to add in grams or ml hvac module assembly 40 liquidcooled condenser 20 battery chiller 20 supermanifold to compressor a/c line 10 refrigerant valves visually estimate and replenish the amount of oil lost , if spillage of less than ~5 ml is observed during component removal supermanifold to hvac a/c line
remove the a/c lines from the vehicle .
remove the driver floormat .
install the clips that attach ptc heather electrical harness onto the hvac assembly .
remove the nut that attaches the suction/liquid line to the compressor , and then remove the suction/liquid line from the compressor .
remove the bolts that attach the a/c compressor bracket to the a/c compressor , and then remove the bracket from the compressor . 9 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
remove the plugs from the male and female fittings of the chiller and exv assembly and coolant hose , install the coolant hose to the chiller , and then fasten the clip that attaches the hose to the chiller .
inject oil into the vehicle : north america/apac remove the low pressure hose from the a/c manifold to hvac assembly . using an oil injector , add the quantity of oil determined in steps 5 and 6 . caution do not add oil via the a/c machine if prompted . only use an oil injector . install the low pressure hose to the a/c manifold to hvac assembly . emea follow the prompts on the a/c machine display to add the quantity of oil determined in steps 5 and 6 .
install the bolts that attach the underhood reinforcement bracket to the body . 16 nm note make sure that there is space between the cooling fan module and the isolator bar to avoid vibration .
install the caps onto the a/c ports .
disconnect the electrical wiring harness conector from the rh temperature sensor .
remove the center console lh side carpet . see side panel center console lh .
disconnect the electrical harness from the ambient air temperature sensor connector .
use a small flat bladed tool to carefully release the ambient temperature sensor cover from the active grille shutter .
install new oring seals onto the hvac assembly .
note the part numbers and serial numbers of the old and new a/c compressors .
remove the absorbent material from under the chiller and exv assembly hose fitting .
loosen the bolts that attach the lh side cooling fan module isolator .
turn off the climate control system .
release the tabs that attach the rh temperature sensor to the hvac module , and then remove the lh temperature sensor .
remove the driver footwell cover : release the push clips that attach the driver footwell cover to the instrument panel . remove the screw that attaches the driver footwell cover to the instrument panel . disconnect the electrical wiring harness connectors from the puddle light and emergency speaker . remove the driver footwell cover from the vehicle :
remove the passenger knee airbag . see airbag knee front passenger .
disconnect the lh temperature sensor electrical connector .
disconnect the evaporator temperature sensor electrical connector .
insert a plastic trim tool into the top center slot of the service panel , and then release the clips and tabs that attach the service panel to the instrument panel . caution an electrical harness is still connected to the service panel . do not pull the service panel too far from the instrument panel .
release the clip that attaches the ambient air temperature sensor to the lower grille , and then remove the sensor from the lower grille . note press the tab that attaches the ambient air temperature sensor and slide up to remove it from the lower grille .
disconnect the ambient temperature sensor electrical connector .
install the hvac assembly in the vehicle . see hvac assembly .
release the clip that attaches the compressor hv electrical harness to the crossbeam .
use a digital scale to weigh the removed compressor and record its weight . caution this step is only to aid in potential diagnosis support . do not add oil to the new a/c compressor . note do not drain any oil from the removed compressor .
install the clips that attach the coolant hose to the a/c compressor bracket .
push the lh side of the cooling fan module isolator towards the front of the vehicle until the isolator bottoms out at the top .
remove the rh side center console side panel carpet . see side panel center console lh .
remove the outer hvac plenum . see duct hvac plenum outer .
release the fresh intake duct from the studs on the bulkhead , and then remove the duct from the vehicle .
remove the driver knee airbag cover : release the push clip that attaches the driver knee airbag cover to the air duct release the clips that attach the driver knee airbag cover . remove the driver knee airbag cover from the vehicle .
remove the passenger footwell cover . see cover footwell passenger .
use a trim tool to release the push clip that attaches the rh footwell duct to the hvac module , and then remove the rh footwell duct from the vehicle .
release the tabs that attach the lh temperature sensor inside the hvac assembly , and then remove the lh temperature sensor from the hvac assembly . note use a plastic trim tool to release the tabs , and then pull the lh temperature sensor straight out to remove it from the hvac assembly .
release the tabs that attach the evaporator temperature sensor inside the hvac assembly , and then remove the evaporator sensor from the hvac assembly . note use a plastic trim tool to release the tabs , and then pull the evaporator temperature sensor straight out to remove it from the hvac assembly .
disconnect the electrical harness from the cabin temperature sensor .
release the clip that attaches the ambient temperature sensor to the active grille shutter .
move the compressor hv electrical harness forward of the shock tower brace to ease compressor removal .
position the a/c compressor bracket on the a/c compressor , and then install the bolts that attach the bracket to the compressor . 9 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
install the electrical harness to the chiller and exv assembly hose , and then fasten the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the hose .
install the rear battery tie down strap on the 12v battery bracket .
tighten the bolts that attach the lh side cooling fan module isolator . 6 nm
release the clips that attach the outer hvac plenum duct to the inner hvac plenum duct , and then remove the outer hvac plenum duct from the vehicle .
release the push clip that attaches the rh footwell vent duct , and then remove the rh footwell vent duct from the vehicle .
remove the instrument panel main decor trim . see decor trim instrument panel main .
install the lh temperature sensor onto the hvac assembly , and then secure the sensor with 2 tabs .
install the evaporator temperature sensor onto the hvac assembly , and then secure the sensor with 2 tabs .
remove the service panel from the touchscreen .
remove the ambient temperature sensor from the vehicle .
remove the bolts that attach the compressor to the shock tower brace , and then lower the compressor and remove it from the vehicle . caution set the compressor so that the refrigerant fittings are up , and oil will not leak from them . before the replacement compressor can be installed , the removed compressor and the oil inside must be weighed .
with an assistant supporting the a/c compressor assembly under the strut tower brace , handstart the bolts that attach the a/c compressor assembly to the brace , and then torque the bolts . 31 nm note do not remove the caps from the a/c compressor yet . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
connect the electrical harness to the coolant temperature sensor connector .
install the clip that attaches the 12v battery vent tube to the 12v battery bracket .
repeat step 19 through step 21 for the rh side cooling fan module isolator .
if the cabin filter cover is attached with tabs : release the tab at the bottom of the cabin filter cover , and then move the cover aside .
align the tab at the bottom of the outer hvac plenum duct before attaching the clips .
connect the lh temperature sensor electrical connector .
connect the evaporator temperature sensor electrical connector .
remove the bolts that attach the cabin temperature sensor to the touchscreen , and then remove the sensor . 0.7 nm
install the clip that attaches the ambient temperature sensor to the active grille shutter .
release the clip that attaches the compressor hv electrical harness to the intermediate bracket .
position the a/c compressor hv harness bracket on the a/c compressor . note make sure the hv harness bracket engages with the harness mount on the top of the a/c compressor .
power on the a/c machine .
check the coolant level at the superbottle and add coolant to the full line , if needed .
remove the rh instrument panel end cap . see end cap instrument panel lh .
if the cabin filter cover is attached with a screw : remove the screw that attaches the cabin filter cover to the hvac unit , and then move the cabin filter cover aside .
release the push clip that attaches the lh footwell air duct to the instrument panel , and then remove the air duct .
install the center console lh side carpet . see side panel center console lh .
connect the ambient temperature sensor electrical connector .
remove the bolts that attach the intermediate bracket to the compressor , and then remove the bracket from the compressor .
press the menu button on the keypad .
connect the active grille shutter electrical connector .
remove the rh middle apillar trim . see trim apillar middle lh .
fold the filter tabs outward , and then pull the upper filter out of the filter housing .
remove the lh and rh shock tower cover . see cover shock tower lh .
install the driver floormat .
install the ambient temperature sensor cover to the active grille shutter .
release the clips that attach the acoustic cover over to the compressor , and then remove the acoustic cover .
press the up or down arrow key to scroll to `` hose flush '' .
remove the rh lower apillar trim . see trim apillar lower lh .
after the upper filter is removed , raise the lower filter up and out of the filter housing .
release the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the windshield washer reservoir .
use a digital scale to weigh the removed compressor and record its weight . note do not drain any oil from the removed compressor .
position the ground strap on the a/c compressor , and then install the bolt that attaches the ground strap to the a/c compressor . 7 nm note this bolt is selftapping . it is not necessary to tap the compressor bolt hole . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t25 socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
press start/yes or ok .
install the lower filter into the filter housing , with the arrows pointing to the rear of the vehicle .
release the clips that attach the inner hvac plenum , and then remove the inner hvac plenum from the vehicle .
disconnect the electrical connector from the windshield washer reservoir .
remove the port plugs and port nuts from the replacement compressor .
refill the coolant to the proper level . see cooling system
connect the red and blue hoses to the machine 's respective storage port connections .
perform the cooling system vacuum refill . see cooling system .
remove the rh footwell cover . see cover footwell passenger .
install the upper filter into the filter housing , with the arrows pointing to the rear of the vehicle , and then fold the filter tabs inward .
use the digital scale to weigh the replacement compressor and record its weight .
open the coupler valves .
if the cabin filter cover is attached with a screw : install the cabin filter cover on the hvac unit , and then install the screw that attaches the cabin filter cover to the hvac unit . 1.2 nm informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note engage the lower cover tab before fastening the cover .
remove fasteners securing the frunk assembly note 7x bolts , 10mm , 5 nm , lift up the rbn covers to access the upper fasteners , newer vehicles may not be equipped with covers
remove the inner hvac plenum duct . see duct hvac plenum inner .
subtract the weight of the removed compressor from the weight of the replacement compressor . the difference is the weight of oil to be removed from the replacement compressor .
if the cabin filter cover is attached with tabs : install the upper tab of the cabin filter cover in the slot of the hvac unit , and then install the lower tab of the cabin filter cover .
remove frunk assembly from vehicle note 12x clips , replace any clips if broken or missing , number of clips may vary on older vehicles
perform the a/c refrigerant recovery procedure . see a/c refrigerant .
turn the replacement compressor upside down to drain a small amount of oil from the suction port into a clean , dry collection container . note if necessary , the collected oil can be reused later for a/c system recharge .
close the coupler valves and press start/yes or ok .
remove the glove box . glove box with knee airbags glove box without knee airbags
remove the ip carrier . see ip carrier .
remove rh wiper arm nut cover note 1x cover
repeat step 2 through step 4 until the weight of the replacement compressor is the same as the removed compressor .
press stop/no or ok to exit the hose flush menu .
disconnect the hv harness connector from the ptc heater . note release the bracket from the body for better access to the connector .
release the clips that attach the cabin intake duct to the cowl screen panel , and then remove the duct from the vehicle .
release the clip that attaches the rh footwell air duct to the hvac module , and then remove the duct from the vehicle .
remove the screws that attach the lh air wave duct to the cross bar beam , and then remove the duct from the vehicle .
remove the fresh air intake assembly . see duct fresh intake .
remove the screws that attach the hvac fan motor to the hvac assembly , and then remove the motor from the hvac assembly .
disconnect washer hose from rh wiper arm to ytube fitting and release washer hose clips note 2x clips , 1x hose
install the acoustic cover over the compressor , and then fasten the clips that attach the cover over the compressor .
connect the appropriate refrigerant oil bottle .
release the clips that attach the ptc heater electrical connector to the body .
remove the rear fascia . see fascia rear .
remove the 2nd lower seat cushion . see seat cushion lower 2nd row .
remove the cross car beam . see beam cross car .
release the clips that attach the rh air wave duct to the cross car beam , and then remove the duct from the cross car beam .
install the lh air wave duct to the cross car beam , and then install the screws that attach the duct to the beam . 2.3 nm
turn the hvac on , then off to open the fresh air inlet duct and gain access to the blower .
position the hvac fan motor on the hvac assembly .
remove the nut securing the rh wiper arm to wiper module note 1x nut , 15mm , 25 nm
remove the lh and rh middle apillar trim . see trim apillar middle lh .
install the intermediate bracket onto the compressor , and then install the bolts that attach the bracket to the compressor . 10 nm .
install the 12v auxiliary battery , but do not connect the negative terminal yet . see 12v/lv battery .
turn off the vehicle 's climate control .
remove the screws that attach the rh vent actuator to the rh front vent , and then remove the actuator from the vent . 1.3 nm
press downward at the top to release the tabs that attach the air extractor to the body , then swing the upper portion of the air extractor outwards , and then remove the air extractor from the vehicle .
remove the bolts that attach the lh vent actuator to the vent , and then remove the lh vent actuator .
release the ip harness clips and carpet clip from the rh cross car beam .
disconnect the electrical harness from the intake actuator connector .
disconnect the electrical wiring harness connector from the lh bleed actuator .
install the ip carrier . see ip carrier .
remove any loose debris from the fresh air inlet seal .
install the screws that attach the hvac fan motor to the hvac assembly . 1.2 nm
remove rh wiper arm and hose assembly from vehicle
remove the lh and rh lower apillar trim . see trim apillar lower lh .
fasten the clip that attaches the compressor hv electrical harness to the intermediate bracket .
disconnect the a/c machine hoses from the a/c flush adapters .
position the bottom edge of the air extractor , and then swing the top portion of the air extractor until is attached firmly by the 4 clips .
release the clip that attaches the lh footwell duct to the hvac module , and r emove the lh footwell duct .
remove the bolt that attaches the rh cross car beam to the hvac assembly . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench 10 mm 12point deep socket
remove the screws that attach the intake actuator to the hvac module , and then remove the actuator from the hvac module . 1.2 nm
remove the bolts that attach the actuator to the hvac module , and then remove the actuator from the module . 2.3 nm
remove the clips that attach the lh air wave duct , and then remove the air wave duct from the vehicle ..
use an air gun to blow shop air into the hvac module assembly to remove dust particles from the blower .
install the hvac assembly . see hvac assembly .
remove lh wiper arm nut cover note 1x cover
remove the lh and rh upper apillar trim . see trim apillar upper lh .
install the compressor under the shock tower brace , and then install the bolts that attach the compressor to the shock tower brace . 10 nm
remove the nuts that attach the flush adapters to the supermanifold to a/c compressor hose fittings , and then remove the flush adapters .
remove the rh footwell duct . see duct footwell rh .
install the rear fascia . see fascia rear .
remove the bolt that attaches the rh cross car beam bracket to the cross car beam . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : ratchet/torque wrench 13mm socket 3 in extension
remove the cabin filter . see filter cabin .
disconnect washer hose from lh wiper arm to ytube fitting and release washer hose clips note 2x clips , 1x hose
remove the driver and front passenger footwell cover . see cover footwell driver .
move the compressor hv electrical harness behind the shock tower brace .
replace the orings on the high pressure and low pressure supermanifold to a/c compressor hose fittings , and then lubricate the orings with nd11 oil . figure 1 . low pressure fitting shown ; high pressure fitting similar
release the clips that attach the front rh carpet to the vehicle , and then fold the front rh carpet rearwards .
remove the lh air wave end cap . see end cap air wave lh .
remove the nut that attaches the rh cross car beam bracket to the body . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : ratchet/torque wrench 13mm socket 3 in extension
install the cabin filter . see filter cabin .
remove the nut securing the lh wiper arm to wiper module note 1x nut , 15mm , 25 nm
perform steps 2 7 of the removal of the driver and front passenger seats . see seat driver . note do not review the driver and front passenger seat at this time .
fasten the clip that attaches the compressor hv electrical harness to the body .
position the supermanifold to a/c compressor high pressure fitting on the a/c compressor , and then install the nut that attaches the fitting to the a/c compressor . 22 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
verify that the oil recovery tank is empty , or mark the existing level with tape as a starting point for later comparison .
disconnect the 12v electrical connector from the ptc heater .
remove the rh cross car beam bracket from the vehicle .
install the fresh air intake assembly . see duct fresh intake .
remove lh wiper arm and hose assembly from vehicle
install a new oring onto the suction/liquid line , insert the line into the compressor , and then install the nut that attaches the line to the compressor . 22 nm
position the supermanifold to a/c compressor low pressure fitting on the a/c compressor , and then install the nut that attaches the fitting to the a/c compressor . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
follow the a/c machine instructions for recovering refrigerant from the vehicle . note in order to fully purge refrigerant and remove air , moisture , and contaminants , it is important to apply the appropriate vacuum for 3045 minutes .
release the clip that attaches the ptc heater electrical harness to the hvac assembly .
remove the front passenger floormat .
insert the inflatable air bag up to the bottom of the lower mode actuator , then inflate it between the rh cross car beam bracket and lower hvac assembly .
remove the lh shock tower cover note 2x push clips
install a new oring onto the discharge line , insert the line into the compressor , and then install the nut that attaches the line to the compressor . 22 nm .
connect the a/c machine red high pressure hose to the vehicle 's high pressure port , and the blue low pressure hose to the vehicle 's low pressure port .
perform service procedures that can be concurrent with refrigerant recovery . caution wait until recovery has finished before performing steps that open the a/c system to ambient air .
remove the bolts that attach the lh side of the ptc heater to the hvac assembly .
disconnect the lower mode actuator electrical connector .
remove the rh shock tower cover note 2x push clips
fasten the clip that attaches the suction/liquid lines to the superbottle .
follow the a/c machine instructions to perform a vacuum leak test for 2 minutes , and then run a vacuum for 15 more minutes to remove excess moisture from the system .
measure the quantity of refrigerant recovered from the system . it should be approximately 640 680 g. record the quantity recovered in the notes section of the repair order .
remove the front fascia . see remove .
remove the clips that attach the ptc heater electrical harness to the hvac assembly .
turn the steering wheel fully to the left .
remove the bolts that attach the lower mode actuator to the hvac assembly , and then remove the actuator from the hvac assembly .
release cowl screen from windshield and remove from vehicle note 2x push clips , 6x clips
perform the a/c refrigerant recharge , but do not install the underhood storage unit or rear underhood apron . see recharge . caution recharge the refrigerant exactly as instructed . failure to adhere to the instructions can cause catastrophic damage to the cooling system .
measure the quantity of oil recovered from the vehicle 's a/c system by comparing the level change in the oil recovery tank . the difference is the quantity of oil to add to the a/c system during recharge , assuming that no components are being replaced .
remove the nut that attaches the instrument panel harness ground strap to the ptc heater .
fasten the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the suction liquid line .
if the recovery procedure is being performed in order to replace a defective a/c compressor , set the weight of the new compressor , to that of the old compressor . note the new a/c compressor is shipped prefilled with the total amount of oil used in the a/c system . oil might need to be removed so that the quantity of oil in the new a/c compressor equals the amount of oil in the old one . use a digital scale to weigh both the old and new compressors . turn the new compressor upside down to drain a small amount of oil into a clean , dry collection container , and then reweigh the new a/c compressor . repeat this process until the new a/c compressor weighs the same as the old one . if necessary , the collected oil can be reused later for a/c system recharge .
remove the grommet , and then carefully pull the hv cable through the bulkhead . caution do not damage the hv cable while feeding through the bulkhead .
disconnect the harness from the low tone horn connector .
remove the screws that attach the pedestrian warning speaker assembly to the front fascia , and then remove the speaker from the fascia . 1.8 nm
release the clips that attach the front portion of the lh front wheel arch liner to the vehicle , and then move the wheel arch liner towards the rear of the vehicle to perform the following steps .
position the lower mode actuator on the hvac assembly ; align the guide , and then push the lower mode actuator towards the left to install .
remove fresh air intake assembly note 2x studs , remove from bulkhead studs
remove the windshield washer reservoir . see reservoir windshield washer .
remove the bolt that attaches the horn to the carrier , and remove the horn from the vehicle . 9 nm north america emea
remove the rear underhood apron . see underhood apron rear
remove the windshield washer reservoir filler neck . see filler neck reservoir windshield washer .
open the driver 's door .
remove the bolt that attaches the horn assembly to the front subframe . note use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 6 in extension
remove the rh air wave end cap . see end cap air wave lh .
install the bolts that attach the lower mode actuator to the hvac assembly . 1.2 nm
remove the bolts securing wiper module note 3x bolts , 10mm , 7 nm
install new orings onto the suction/liquid line fitting , install the fitting into the chiller and exv assembly , and then install the bolt that attaches the fitting to the chiller and exv assembly . 5.5 nm
connect the negative terminal of the 12v battery .
if the recovery procedure is being performed in order to replace a defective a/c components other than the compressor , drain all oil from the defective components and measure the quantity of oil recovered .
use a plastic trim tool to remove the cap from the windshield washer reservoir filler neck . note the cap and the retaining collar are a single piece .
remove the bolts that attach the rh side of the ptc heater to the hvac assembly , and then lower the ptc heater from the hvac assembly .
use a flathead screwdriver to remove the oring from the filler neck .
remove the bolt that attaches the filler neck to the underhood storage unit . 5 nm
remove the driver knee airbag . see airbag knee driver .
disconnect the electrical connectors from the horn assembly .
connect the lower mode actuator electrical connector .
disconnect wiper module harness note 1x connector , do not place limbs within the linkage movement area as wiper arms will automatically transition to parking mode
disconnect the hv harness connector from the ptc heater .
add the quantity of oil recovered in step 23 to the quantity of oil recovered from defective components other than the a/c compressor in step 25 , and record this value in the notes section of the repair order . this value is the quantity of oil to add during a/c system recharge .
reestablish vehicle connection to toolbox 3.0
align the locating slot on the cap with the locating tab on the filler neck , and then fully seat the cap onto the filler neck .
inspect the hvac assembly to see if a service panel has been installed or not . if a service panel is not installed , perform step 27 and then skip 28 . if a service panel is installed , skip step 27 .
release the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the filler neck .
remove the horn assembly from the vehicle .
remove the glove box . see glove box with knee airbags .
deflate and remove the inflatable air bag between the rh cross car beam bracket and lower hvac assembly .
remove wiper module from vehicle
reinstall software through the vehicle touchscreen : select service mode , and then select software reinstall . select request to inititate sotware installation . note a yellow clock installation icon should appear within 5 minutes . select the software tab , and then touch install now .
consider your next step : if servicing an a/c system component , disconnect the red and blue hoses from the high and low pressure ports , and perform the service procedures that required refrigerant recovery . if recharging the vehicle 's a/c system , see recharge .
install the rear underhood apron . see underhood apron rear
if a service panel is not installed , use a razor blade to carefully cut the inner edge of the side cover , and then remove and discard the side cover . a service panel will be installed after replacing the ptc heater . warning wear cutresistant gloves when performing this step . caution use caution when cutting the side cover . avoid contact with the ptc heater . tip : consider using tools from the glazing kit instead of a razor blade .
pull the filler neck directly away from the windshield washer reservoir to remove it .
disconnect the electrical connector from the accelerator .
position the horn assembly for installation , and then connect the electrical connectors to the horn assembly .
position the rh cross car beam bracket to the body .
release harness clip from lh side of washer tank inlet note 1x clip
fully release the rear park brake calipers . see parking brake caliper rear lh .
fasten the clips that attach the low voltage electrical harness to the compressor and compressor bracket .
touch next to recharge a/c refrigerant . caution for robinair machines , do not accept the step to clear out residual oil . press esc to decline .
select `` testself_vcfront_x_fivewayvalve '' , click run and allow routine to complete note select `` x '' at top right of window to close once complete
if a service panel is installed , remove the bolts that attach the service panel to the standoffs on the hvac assembly . remove the service panel .
ensure the new filler neck is equipped with an oring . if an oring is not installed , install one .
remove the windshield washer reservoir filler neck . see guidaf7a6cc0768c42d5805003a2374ee16b.html .
remove the bolt that attaches the accelerator to the body .
install the bolt that attaches the horn assembly to the front subframe . 12 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 6 in extension
release the clips that attach the instrument panel harness to the rh side of the hvac assembly .
loosely install the nut that attaches the rh cross car beam bracket to the body .
remove lh front wheel center cap note 1x cap
install the bolt that attaches the ground harness to the compressor . 6 nm
exit service mode plus . see service mode plus .
when refrigerant is recharged , touch next to start the `` end of charge '' process .
slide the ptc heater out of the hvac assembly , and then remove the ptc heater from the vehicle .
slide the accelerator downwards , and then remove the accelerator from the vehicle .
install the clips that attach the front portion of the lh front wheel arch liner to the vehicle .
disconnect the electrical connector from the upper mode actuator .
loosely install the bolt that attaches the rh cross car beam bracket to the cross car beam .
loosen lh front wheel note 5x nuts , 21mm , 175 nm
install the lh front wheel , but do not fully tighten the lug nut at this time .
connect the low voltage electrical harness to the compressor connector .
when prompted , close the high and low valves on the machine , and then tap next .
remove the sealing plate from the ptc heater . note replace the sealing plate , if damaged .
slide the accelerator up , and then install the accelerator into the bracket .
center the steering wheel .
remove the bolts that attach the upper mode actuator to the hvac assembly , and then remove the upper mode actuator .
loosely install the bolt that attaches the cross car beam to the hvac assembly .
raise vehicle partially and lower lift onto locks note set vehicle to a comfortable working height , make sure there 's an audible click of the locks on both sides before lowering , otherwise vehicle may tilt to the side
with an assistant , push the vehicle away from the lift . note secure the vehicle with wheel chocks .
select the actions/autodiag tab , and then search for `` reset compressor '' .
install the sealing plate onto the new ptc heater . note failure to transfer the sealing plate has the potential of introducing air or water leakage .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the water tank to the vehicle . tip : use of the following tool is recommended :
install the bolt that attaches the accelerator to the body . 7 nm
position the upper mode actuator onto the hvac assembly ; align the guide and push the actuator towards the left to install .
tighten the nut that attaches the rh cross car beam bracket to the body . 25 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : ratchet/torque wrench 13mm socket 3 in extension
remove lh front wheel note 5x nuts , 21mm , 175 nm
perform step 812 for the removal of the driver and front passenger seats . see seat driver .
connect the electrical harness to the high pressure transducer connector .
click proc_vcfront_x_resetcompressorpmetric , and then click run .
on the vehicle touchscreen , run the run heat pump commissioning routine . when the routine has finished , touch the x at the upper left corner .
disconnect the electrical connector from the high tone horn .
slide the ptc heater into the hvac assembly , and then push the ptc heater up to install it .
disconnect the electrical harness from the windshield washer reservoir connector .
disconnect the washer tank level sensor . note move the washer tank forward , and then up to access the level sensor connector .
connect the accelerator electrical connector .
install the bolts that attach the upper mode actuator to the hvac assembly . 1.2 nm
tighten the bolt that attaches the rh cross car beam bracket to the cross car beam . 25 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : ratchet/torque wrench 13mm socket 3 in extension
partially remove lh front wheel liner note 6x clips , 1x bolt , 10mm , 5 nm , newer vehicles may be equipped with 2x push clips securing lower portion of liner to body
fasten the clips that attach the compressor hv electrical harness to the bulkhead .
after the routine ends , click the `` x '' at the upper right corner of the prompt , and then disconnect the laptop from the vehicle .
on the vehicle touchscreen , set the a/c system to the following , and then tap next on the a/c machine . a/c power : on temp : lo airflow controllers : on fresh air mode : on blower speed : 3
remove the bolt that attaches the high tone horn to the carrier , and then remove the horn from the vehicle . 9 nm north america emea
install the bolts that attach the rh side of the ptc heater to the hvac assembly . 2.9 nm
remove the lh front wheel . see wheel .
disconnect the electrical harness from the windshield washer pump connector . note lift the washer tank up , and then rotate it counterclockwise to access the washer pump at the rear of the tank .
connect the upper mode actuator electrical connector .
tighten the bolt that attaches the rh cross car beam to the hvac assembly . 5.5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench 10 mm 12point deep socket
remove lower bolt securing washer tank to vehicle note 1x bolt , 10mm , 3 nm
connect the compressor hv electrical connector to the hv electrical harness .
on the a/c machine , verify the discharge pressure does not exceed 26 bar and suction pressure is not below 1.15 bar , and then tap next .
position the service panel for installation , and then install the bolts that attach the service panel to the standoffs on the hvac assembly . 1.2 nm
remove the windshield washer reservoir from the vehicle , and then recover any fluid from the reservoir .
install the driver knee airbag . see airbag knee driver .
install the clips that attach the instrument panel harness to the rh side of the hvac assembly .
install the ip harness clips and carpet clip to the rh cross car beam .
partially install lh front wheel liner note 2x clips , partially install lh front wheel liner , wheel liner will be removed again later , install 2 clips to secure lh front wheel liner
if previously removed , install the underhood storage unit . see underhood storage unit .
turn the vehicle a/c off and allow the pressures to stabilize , as indicated on the a/c machine .
push the hv cable through the bulkhead , and then install the grommet . caution do not damage the hv cable while feeding through the bulkhead . note apply lubricant to the hv cable , if necessary .
remove the lower bolt that attaches the windshield washer reservoir to the body .
remove the washer hose from the windshield washer reservoir and washer pump . note rotate the washer pump to remove the washer hose .
remove the lower bolt that attaches the windshield washer reservoir to the body . 3 nm
install the rh footwell duct . see duct footwell rh .
install lh front wheel note 5x nuts , 21mm , 175 nm , start lug nuts by hand before using power tool , torque at later step
connect the red high pressure hose to the vehicle 's high pressure port , and the blue low pressure hose to the vehicle 's low pressure port .
close and remove the high pressure hose from the vehicle , and then tap next .
install the nut that attaches the instrument panel harness ground strap to the ptc heater . 5 nm
lower the vehicle until the tires just touch the ground .
install the windshield washer hose onto the windshield washer pump and reservoir .
install the glove box . see glove box with knee airbags .
lower vehicle until tires are touching the ground note raise lift off locks , then hold lock release lever to keep locks free while vehicle is lowered
remove the lh and rh air wave end cap . see end cap air wave lh .
start the a/c vacuum and leak test , and continue with this procedure while the tests are running .
on the vehicle touchscreen , set the a/c system to the following . a/c power : on temp : lo airflow controllers : on fresh air mode : on blower speed : 3
install the clips that attach the ptc heater electrical harness to the hvac assembly .
remove the upper bolt that attaches the windshield washer reservoir to the body .
connect the electrical harness to the windshield washer pump connector and level sensor connector .
remove the upper bolt that attaches the windshield washer reservoir to the body . 3 nm
use toolbox to perform the accelerator pedal test .
remove upper bolt securing washer tank to vehicle note 1x bolt , 10mm , 3 nm
install the penthouse hv cap . see cap hv penthouse .
open the high pressure and low pressure machine valves , and then tap next .
instal the bolts that attach the lh side of the ptc heater to the hvac assembly . 2.9 nm
install the windshield washer reservoir into the vehicle , and then install the bolt and nut that attach the windshield washer reservoir to the body . tip : use of the following tool is recommended :
install the rh air wave end cap . see end cap air wave lh .
disconnect washer pump and level sensor connectors note 2x connectors
allow the a/c system pressures to stabilize , and then close and remove the low pressure hose .
install the clip that attaches the ptc heater electrical harness to the hvac assembly .
disconnect the washer hose from the washer pump , and then rnemove the hose from the washer reservoir . note rotate the washer pump to facilitate hose disconnetion .
fasten the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the windshield washer reservoir .
disconnect the electrical harness from the windshield washer pump connector .
remove washer tank from vehicle note 2x connectors，keep washer tank upright to keep contents from spilling
remove the rh footwell duct . see duct footwell lh .
follow the instructions on the a/c machine to clear the a/c hoses .
connect the 12v electrical connector to the ptc heater .
after installation is complete , fill the windshield washer reservoir with windshield washer fluid .
remove the washer hose from the windshield washer reservoir , and then remove the windshield washer pump from the grommet in the reservoir .
remove vehicle from lift note recommend assistance to push the vehicle backward , note this vehicle can only be safely pushed for a very short distance and at very slow speed
turn the a/c off , and then tap next .
on the touchscreen , touch controls > service > wiper service mode to enable `` wiper service mode '' .
unfold the front rh carpet forward , and then install the clips that attach the front rh carpet to the vehicle .
using the touchscreen , put the wipers in `` service mode '' .
verify correct operation of windshield washers and wipers .
place the two new keys onto the center console behind the cup holders .
install the windshield washer reservoir filler neck . see guidaf7a6cc0768c42d5805003a2374ee16b.html .
remove the windshield washer hose from the windshield washer pump .
install the caps on the a/c high pressure and low pressure ports .
place a towel or shop rag underneath the wiper arms to prevent scratches on the windshield .
clean the wiper blades and the windshield thoroughly with isopropyl alcohol wipes , or equivalent .
remove the wiper arm nut covers .
install the windshield washer hose onto the windshield washer pump .
install the front passenger floormat .
select `` actions/autodiag '' and search for `` epb ''
on the touchscreen , touch controls > locks , and then touch + in the `` keys '' section .
move the driver seat and front passenger seat fully rearward and to the lowest position .
open all doors and lower all windows . note latch the rear doors with the doors open using a small flat blade screwdriver to prevent an accidental lockout .
apply protective tape to the lh fender around the lh front side repeater light .
release the tab that attaches the lh wiper blade to the lh wiper arm , and then remove the lh wiper blade from the vehicle .
spray the windshield with the washer jets .
release the lh and rh wiper arm hoses from the ytube .
righthand drive only : remove the outer hvac plenum duct . see duct hvac plenum outer .
in toolbox , click the actions/autodiag tab , type `` nfc cards whitelist '' in the search field , click on nfc cards whitelist pairing and permission adding , and then click run to start the pairing process . note alternatively , type `` nfccardv2 '' , click on proc_vcsec_c_pairnfccardv2 , and then click run to start the pairing process .
insert the tip of the windshield washer pump into the grommet in the windshield washer reservoir , install the pump into the reservoir , and then install the washer hose into the reservoir .
install the rh instrument panel end cap . see end cap instrument panel lh .
select 'proc_epbl_startservicemode ' , click 'run ' , and allow routine to complete note chock wheel if necessary , select ‘ x ’ at top right of window to close once complete
select ‘ actions/autodiag ’ and search for ‘ pump ’
scan the new key card or key fob on the key reader behind the cup holders on the top of the center console . after the new key card or key fob is recognized , remove it from the key reader .
remove the bolt that attaches the battery backed siren bracket to the vehicle . 8 nm
carefully insert a trim tool under the rear edge of the lh front side repeater trim , and then separate it from the lh front repeater light assembly . caution use caution and avoid contact with the body panel . note discard the cover after removal .
release the tab that attaches the rh wiper blade to the rh wiper arm , and then remove the rh wiper blade from the vehicle .
cycle the wipers on high speed , and then inspect the cleaning pattern of the wiper blades : if no streaking nor chattering of the windshield is present , discontinue this procedure . if streaking or chattering of the windshield is present , continue to the next step .
release the clips that attach the lh and rh wiper arm hoses to the vehicle .
in toolbox , under `` pairrequirement '' , type `` 2 '' , and then click submit . note allow the routine to run . if the routine fails , try again .
install the lh air wave end cap . see end cap air wave lh .
select ‘ proc_epbr_startservicemode ’ , click ‘ run ’ , and allow routine to complete note hold down brake pedal while performing routine , caution vehicle may roll freely , select ' x ' at top right of window to close once complete
disconnect the charge cable and laptop from the vehicle .
consider your first step : if you have installed a/c system components , perform steps that close the a/c system from ambient air , and then reconnect the red and blue hoses to the high and low pressure ports . otherwise , go to step 2 .
select ‘ testself_vcfront_x_coolant_pumps_identification ’ , click ‘ run ’ , and allow routine to complete note select ‘ x ’ at top right of window to close once complete , ensure vcfront_a490_coolantpumpsnotidentified has cleared
scan an alreadyauthenticated key card or key fob on the key reader behind the cup holders on the top of the center console .
remove the battery backed siren from the bracket .
open the center console armrest .
disconnect the electrical wiring harness connector from the rear bluetooth passive entry module .
use ipa wipes to clean the surface area on the lh front side repeater light . note allow at least one minute of dry time .
install the new rh wiper blade onto the rh wiper arm until the retaining tab is visible and an audible click is heard .
install the clips that attach the ptc heater electrical connector to the body .
remove the lh wiper blade . see wiper blades .
remove the nuts that attach the wiper arms to the wiper motor assembly .
remove the underhood storage carpet . see carpet underhood storage .
once the routine completes , confirm that it displays the correct number of paired keys . note if the number of keys successfully paired does not match the number of keys requested , reposition the keys on the center console or phone dock and repeat from step 3 .
fill the windshield washer reservoir with fluid .
install the windshield washer reservoir into the vehicle , and then install the upper bolt that attach es the windshield washer reservoir to the body . 3 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended :
follow the a/c machine instructions to pull a vacuum into the vehicle 's a/c system . note in order to fully purge refrigerant and remove air , moisture , and contaminants , it is important to apply the appropriate vacuum for 3045 minutes .
when complete , the key list on the touchscreen displays the newly authenticated key . note you can customize the name of the key by touching the associated pencil icon .
disconnect the battery backed siren connector , and then remove the battery backed siren from the vehicle .
on both sides of the center console , use a trim tool to release the rear clips that attach the center console décor trim to the center console . caution do not attempt to remove the center console décor trim yet ; the front of the center console décor trim is still secured to the center console .
remove and discard the bolt and release the clip that attach the bluetooth passive entry module to the body , and then remove the module from the bracket . note when releasing the module from the bracket , rotate the left side away from the bracket to release the tab . note use of the following tool is recommended : t30 socket 2 in extension
remove the adhesive on the lh front side repeater light trim .
install the new lh wiper blade onto the lh wiper arm until the retaining tab is visible and an audible click is heard .
connect the hv harness connector to the ptc heater . note install the bracket to the body .
loosen the plate screw of the wiper adjustment tool , so that the measurement plate rotates freely .
place the base of the wiper arm removal tool under the wiper arm and position the set screw so that it is centered and touching the wiper arm stud , and then tighten the set screw until the wiper arm is released . caution removing the wiper arm without the wiper arm removal tool can result in damage to the wiper arm or wiper motor .
tap each new key against the driver 's side bpillar applique to verify that the key locks and unlocks the vehicle .
verify operation of the windshield wipers and washer .
raise the vehicle to a working height , and then install the lower bolt that attaches the windshield washer reservoir to the body . 3 nm
set the refrigerant charge to 660 g .
tap the new key against the driver 's side bpillar applique to verify that the key locks and unlocks the vehicle .
release the clips that attach the front portion of the center console décor trim to the center console .
install the new bolt that attaches the bluetooth passive entry module to the body . 3.5 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : t30 socket 2 in extension
align the top of the lh front side repeater light trim onto the lh front side repeater light assembly , and then apply equal and firm pressure to fully attach the trim onto the assembly .
remove the towel or shop rag from the windshield .
loosen the thumbscrew on the tool , and slide the tool onto the end of the lh wiper arm .
remove the wiper arms from the vehicle .
remove the wiper arms . see wiper arms . note for cars built on or after march 9th , 2019 , the wiper module assembly does not have pigtail . switch to `` wiper service mode '' when removing it .
lhd models only : remove the wiper motor . see wiper module .
place each new key onto the key reader behind the cup holders on top of the center console to verify they are both authenticated and can start the vehicle .
install the lh front wheel arch liner . see wheel arch liner front lh .
remove laptop from vehicle note do not close toolbox 3.0 , we will need to resume later
fill the oil supply bottle with the quantity of nd11 spec poe oil as determined in recovery .
place the new key onto the key reader behind the cup holders on top of the center console to verify it is authenticated and can start the vehicle .
move up the center console décor trim and disconnect the electrical connector of the wireless phone charger .
open the center console armrest fully .
connect the electrical wiring harness connector to the rear bluetooth passive entry module .
remove the protective wrap from the lh front side repeater light trim .
on the touchscreen , touch controls > service > wiper service mode to disable `` wiper service mode '' .
tighten the thumbscrew and make sure that both plastic points are resting on the windshield .
position the lh and rh wiper arms onto the vehicle . note make sure to route the hoses behind the wiper arm pivot joint . figure 1 . incorrect hose routing figure 2 . correct hose routing
release the clips that attach the lh and rh shock tower covers to the vehicle , and then remove the covers from the vehicle . lh shock tower cover shown , rh similar
install the 2nd lower seat cushion . see seat cushion lower 2nd row .
push vehicle away from lift note recommend assistance , place wheel chocks to keep vehicle from moving , note this vehicle can only be safely pushed for a very short distance and at very slow speed
remove the lh , center , and rh dash speakers . see speaker dash lh .
if necessary , select the `` uv dye '' option to inject leak detection dye during recharge .
while sitting in the vehicle , open the tesla mobile app and select the appropriate vehicle , and then touch phone key > start .
remove the screws that attach the bracket to the center console , and then use a plastic trim tool to remove the bracket from the center console . tip : use of the following tool is recommended :
remove the lh and rh center console decor trims . see decor trim center console lh .
remove the protective tape from the lh fender around the lh front side repeater light .
check the wiper arm angle , and use a 24 mm wrench to rotate the tool as necessary to set the correct angle . adjust the wiper arm angle to 4 .
install and handtighten the nuts that attach the wiper arms to the wiper motor assembly .
release the clips that attach the cowl screen to the vehicle , and then remove the cowl screen from the vehicle .
open all four doors note if vehicle is being powered down , latch rear doors to prevent accidental closure
initiate the recharge procedure through the high pressure hose .
scan an alreadyauthenticated key card or key fob on the key reader behind the cup holders on the top of the center console .
carefully lift up the cup holder décor trim to release the clips that attach it to the center console . caution do not attempt to remove the cup holder décor trim . the electrical connector of the security body controller module is still attached .
remove the screws and release the tabs that attach the lh bright strip to the center console , and then remove the strip from the console . repeat this step to remove the rh bright strip . lh shown , rh similar
perform the selftest routine in toolbox : connect a laptop with toolbox 3 . click actions/autodiag , and then search for `` endpoint '' . select testself_vcsec_x_endpointcomm , and then click run and allow routine to complete . note once complete , click the x on the window to close it .
remove the tool from the wiper arm .
align the tip of the rh wiper blade between the two arrows on the windshield .
disconnect the electrical connector from the wiper module . warning do not place limbs within the module linkage area as the wiper arms will automatically transition to parking mode .
connect the electrical harness to the windshield washer reservoir connector .
remove the lh air wave duct . see duct air wave lh .
perform service procedures that can be concurrent with refrigerant recharge .
when the mobile app indicates that the pairing was successful , touch done . the key list on the touchscreen displays the new phone key . the name of the phone key is determined by the name used in the phone ’ s settings .
disconnect the electrical connector from the security body controller module , and then remove the cup holder décor panel from the center console .
release the clips that attach the cup holder decor panel to the cup holder assembly , and then separate the cup holder decor panel from the center console assembly .
disconnect the electrical connector from the front bluetooth passive entry antenna connector .
install the rh footwell cover . see cover footwell passenger .
install the wiper blade . see wiper blades .
tighten the nut to attach the rh wiper arm . 25 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm socket 3/8 in std ratchet 3/8 in torque wrench
remove the bolts that attach the wiper module to the body , and then remove the wiper module from the vehicle . note use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension figure 1 . lefthand drive figure 2 . rhd
remove the lh front carpet . see carpet front lh .
disconnect the red and blue hoses from the high and low pressure ports and return them to the a/c machine .
remove the screws that attach the security body controller module to the cup holder décor panel , and then remove the security body controller module from the panel . tip : use of the following tool is recommended :
disconnect the electrical connector from the security body controller module , and then remove the cup holder decor panel from the vehicle .
remove the bolt that attaches the front bluetooth passive entry antenna to the front end carrier , and then remove the antenna from the front end carrier . 9 nm
repeat step 5 to step 11 for the rh wiper arm .
align the tip of the lh wiper blade between the two arrows on the windshield . note the lh wiper blade should be approximately 5 10mm from , and parallel to , the front edge of the windshield .
install the bolts that attach the wiper module to the vehicle . 7 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension figure 3 . lhd figure 4 . rhd
connect hoses to vehicle and perform ac recovery note touch time only , connect couplers to vehicle , open couplers by turning clockwise , open machine valves , note the amount of refrigerant and oil recovered , mark oil drain bottle oil level if drained oil level increased more than 30 ml refer to drained oil loss chart : vacuum leak test and oil injection .
remove the rh front carpet . see carpet front rh .
remove the screws that attach the security body controller module to the cup holder decor panel , and then remove the security body controller module from the panel . tip : use of the following tool is recommended :
install the rh lower apillar trim . see trim apillar lower lh .
using the touchscreen , remove the wipers from `` service mode '' .
tighten the nut to attach the lh wiper arm . 25 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm socket 3/8 in std ratchet 3/8 in torque wrench
connect the electrical connector to the wiper module . warning do not place limbs within the module linkage area as the wiper arms will automatically transition to parking mode .
perform any pending service procedures .
connect a laptop with toolbox 3 to the vehicle . note configuration changes from within toolbox can only be performed by a tesla employee at this time . third parties must request the configuration change through their agreed tesla technical support channel .
install the screws that attach the security body controller module to the cup holder decor panel . tip : use of the following tool is recommended :
inform the customer that because a bluetooth endpoint has been replaced , the phone key is unaware of this change . the customer must delete and repair their phone key to the vehicle , if they were previously using this feature . instructions are available in the owners manual , and at the diy web pages .
install the rh middle apillar trim . see trim apillar middle lh .
spray the windshield with the washer jets and verify operation . if streaking or chattering still persists , replace the wiper blades and repeat this procedure .
connect the lh and rh wiper arm hoses to the ytube fitting .
connect the clips that attach the cowl screen to the vehicle .
remove console lower rear panel note 5x clips , insert the plastic trim tool at the bottom of the cover and pull straight out to release
release the clips that attach the rh and lh floor ducting to the floor , and remove the ducting .
turn on the cabin a/c and verify operation .
in toolbox , click the dashboards tab , and then type `` vcsec '' . note toolbox will show the vcsec replacement dashboard .
connect the electrical connector to the security body controller module .
connect the clips that attach the lh and rh wiper arm hoses to the vehicle .
connect the clips that attach the lh and rh shock tower covers to the vehicle . lh shock tower cover shown , rh similar
remove lh rear exterior hardware from center console note 1x bolt , 10mm , 7 nm
disconnect the hvac harness connector from the rh body controller .
attach the clips that attach the cup holder decor panel to the center console assembly .
install the wiper arm nut covers .
disconnect the electrical harness from the windshield washer pump connector and level sensor connector .
move lh front seat backward
remove the txv valve . see txv valve evaporator .
install the rh bright strips : start with the corner nearest to the ip carrier , and then continue towards the rear . repeat this step on the lh bright strip .
release the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the reservoir , and then remove the electrical harness from the windshield washer reservoir .
remove lh front floor mat
remove the bolt that attaches the hvac module to the body . 5.5 nm
install 2nd row seat cushion and connect harness note 2x connectors , 2x clips , insert the seat belt buckles through the holes , slide rear cushion inward then align front guide tabs to locking tabs , make sure cushion is fully seated with push & pull test near clips , newer vehicles may have connectors located on lh side
install the screws that attach the rh bright strip to the center console assembly . repeat this step on the lh bright strip . 1.6 nm lh shown , rh similar
install the underhood storage carpet . see carpet underhood storage .
remove the level sensor from the grommet at the side of the reservoir .
remove lh console side panel carpet note 12x clips , use trim tool starting at rear edge to release upper clips , then pull bottom to release remaining clips
remove the grommet and pull the ptc heater harness through the bulkhead .
install the rh center console decor trim , and then repeat this step on the lh center console decor trim . see decor trim center console lh .
remove lh front exterior hardware from center console note 2x bolts , 10mm , 7 nm
remove the bolt that attaches the lower lh side of the hvac assembly to the vehicle . 5.5 nm
close the center console armrest .
with assistance , remove the hvac assembly from the vehicle .
raise all windows
open the trunk , and then use the bump stop removal tool to remove the lh trunk stop . caution do not use other tools to pry at the trunk stop as this could damage the taillight or trunk stop .
remove the rear fascia assembly and place it on a padded surface . see fascia rear .
apply masking around the rh rear reflex lens .
reconnect 12v power , but do not install the rear underhood apron at this time . see 12v/lv power .
remove the trunk lid trim . see trim lid trunk .
install the level sensor into the grommet at the side of the reservoir . note make sure that the flat edge of the sensor is up and fits flush with the reservoir .
remove rh rear exterior hardware from center console note 1x bolt , 10mm , 7 nm
with an assistant , position the hvac assembly into the vehicle . note align the drain hose and txv housing .
close all four doors note unlatch rear doors before closing
restore the driver seat and front passenger seat back to their original position .
release the clips that attach the lh rear fascia reflector to the rear fascia assembly , and remove the reflector from the fascia .
use a plastic trim tool to release the clips that attach the rh rear reflex lens to the body , and then remove the rh rear reflex lens from the vehicle . note partially release the upper right clip first , then release the rest of the clips .
release the clips that attach the front portion of the lh front wheel arch liner to the vehicle , and then move the liner aside to perform the following steps .
apply protective tape to the lh front fender around the lh front side repeater light .
disconnect the electrical connector from the license plate light .
disconnect the electrical wiring harness connector from the lh rear fog/reverse light .
install the electrical harness to the windshield washer reservoir , and then fasten the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the reservoir .
move rh front seat backward and seat back downward
install the bolt that attaches the lower lh side hvac assembly to the vehicle . 5.5 nm
on a wall , measure 14.5 in from the floor , and then apply a length of 1inch masking tape horizontally to the wall to mark the measurement .
open the lh front door and lower the lh front window .
position the vehicle for adjusting the headlights . the vehicle should be : located in a darkened area . parked on a level surface . perpendicular to a wall that has a white matte surface . the wall must be at least 1.8 m high and 3.7 m wide . close enough to the wall so that the headlights are positioned 10 m away .
open the driver 's door and lower the window .
enter headlight adjustment mode : on the vehicle touchscreen , touch controls > service > adjust headlights . if prompted to calibrate the headlights , continue to substep c. if prompted to adjust the headlights , skip to step 2 . figure 1 . figure a figure 2 . figure b follow the prompts on the touchscreen to calibrate the headlights . calibration is complete when all 4 checks have transitioned from `` red '' to `` green '' . note the calibration drive can take up to 2 km . note to ensure an accurate calibration : after turning on the drive rails , wait for at least 1 second before switching to drive . close all vehicle doors and do not open the doors while performing the calibration drive . after stopping the vehicle , wait at least 1 second before opening the doors . do not drive the vehicle in reverse for more than 10 meters . if this is unavoidable due to garage logistics , start the headlight calibration after the vehicle has exited the garage . after headlight calibration is complete , the headlights can be adjusted . continue to the next step .
install the rh rear reflex lens to the vehicle , and then fasten the clips that attach the lens to the body . note carefully and firmly press the rh rear reflex lens to fully seat the clips .
d isconnect the electrical connector from the lh front turn signal/fog light .
release the tabs at the bottom of the lh front side repeater light that attach the light to the lh front fender , and then separate the light from the fender . caution if reinstalling the same side repeater , take care not to damage the mounting tabs .
push the license plate light towards the rh of the vehicle to compress the clip , and then compress the clip on the other side of the light to remove the light .
remove the nut that attaches the lh rear fog/reverse light to the trunk lid . 3.2 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : 8 mm deep socket 4 in extension
remove rh front floor mat
push the ptc heater harness through the bulkhead , and then install the grommet . note use caution not to damage the hv cable while passing the cable through the bulkhead .
measure 25 ft from the wall , and then apply a short length of 1inch masking tape to the floor to mark the measurement .
verify that network connectivity is available to the vehicle by the words `` 3g '' , `` 4g '' , `` lte '' , or the wifi icon appearing in the upper right corner of the touchscreen .
make sure that all 4 tires are inflated to specification .
position the vehicle for adjusting the headlights . the vehicle should be : located in a darker work area with low ambient lighting . parked on a level surface . perpendicular to a wall that has a matte surface . the wall must be at least 1.8 m high and 3.7 m wide .
apply tape to a wall 23.6 in from the ground . figure 3 . apply tape to the wall
remove the masking tape from the body .
release the clips that attach the fascia electrical harness to the lh front turn signal/fog light .
disconnect the electrical harness from the lh front side repeater light connectors , and then remove the light from the vehicle .
remove the lh rear fog/reverse light from the trunk lid . note carefully pry on the exterior of the lh rear fog/reverse light to release it .
install the windshield washer reservoir into the vehicle , and then install the upper bolt that attaches the windshield washer reservoir to the body . 3 nm
remove rh console side panel carpet note 12x clips , use trim tool starting at rear edge to release upper clips , pull bottom to release remaining clips
install the bolt that attaches the hvac module to the body near the hvac inlet . 5.5 nm
position the vehicle perpendicular to the wall , aligning the vehicle front facia with the masking tape on the floor .
enable service mode . see service mode .
open the front trunk hood .
apply tape to the floor 31.1 ft from the wall so that the headlights are 10 m away from the wall . note eu vehicles require a 1 % downward inclination in the headlight beam . for example , a vehicle parked 10 m from the wall would have 10 cm beam drop , from 70 cm height at the lens to 60 cm height at the wall .
make sure that the rh rear reflex lens to body gap and flush are within specifications .
remove the screws , and then release the tabs that attach the lh front turn signal/fog light to the front fascia . 2.8 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : torx t25 socket 4 in extension
connect the electrical harness to the lh front side repeater light connectors .
remove and discard the grommets from the trunk lid .
remove rh front exterior hardware from center console note 2x bolts , 10mm , 7 nm
install the txv valve . see txv valve evaporator .
remove and discard the grommets from the body .
make sure that all 4 tires are inflated to their recommended settings . see tire pressures . note do not sit in the vehicle , as this will affect fog light height .
touch controls , and then touch service mode .
on the touchscreen , touch controls , and then touch the software tab to display the vehicle firmware version . if the vehicle is running firmware version 2018.36.8 or higher , proceed to step 5 . if the vehicle is running an earlier firmware version , update the vehicle firmware to version 2018.36.8 or higher . see firmware update .
put a piece of tape on the wall 28 in from the ground .
park the vehicle on a flat surface perpendicular to a wall , aligning the front fascia with the tape on the floor . figure 4 . apply tape to floor and align with front fascia
remove the lh front turn signal/fog light from the vehicle .
firmly install the lh front side repeater light into the lh front fender , and then fasten the front and bottom tabs that attach the light to the fender . caution if reinstalling the same side repeater , make sure the mounting tabs are not damaged . if any of the tabs are damaged , replace the repeater .
if the fog/reverse light is to be reinstalled , remove the gaskets from around the threaded mounting stud and the light connector .
power off vehicle from center display note via controls > safety & security > vehicle power > power off
if the same taillight is to be reinstalled , replace the gaskets from around each taillight mounting bolt and the taillight electrical connector .
ensure that the vehicle is powered up and that the exterior lights are set to `` on '' or `` auto '' by touching the vehicle center display : controls > quick controls > exterior lights .
remove the rh side rail trim . see trim side rail lh .
touch software reinstall , and then touch request .
on the vehicle touchscreen , touch controls > service > adjust headlamps to enable headlight adjustment mode .
on the vehicle touchscreen , enter headlight adjustment mode : controls > service > adjust headlights .
open the front trunk .
measure 25 ft away from the wall and put a piece of tape on the ground to indicate where the vehicle should be parked .
install new grommets into the trunk lid where the light installs .
connect the hvac harness connector from the rh body controller .
install new grommets into the body .
turn on the fog lights by touching the vehicle center display : controls > quick controls > fog lamp .
remove the front fascia . see fascia front .
turn on the headlights .
position 75 kg of ballast in the driver 's seat .
park the vehicle perpendicular to the wall so that the front fascia is flush with the tape that was placed on the ground in the previous step . figure 3 . model 3 shown , model y similar
use a laser measure to make sure the vehicle is positioned perpendicular to the wall . measure the distance from the center of both front wheels to the wall . both measurements from the center of the wheels to the wall should be equal . if the measurements are unequal , reposition vehicle accordingly .
use the touchscreen to clear das calibration . wait for the prompt to automatically disappear before continuing . note controls > service > camera calibration > clear calibration note verify the calibration was cleared successfully . note `` calibration in progress '' message and progress icon will appear during the next drive cycle .
if the fog/reverse light is to be reinstalled , install new gaskets around the threaded mounting stud and light connector .
position the lh taillight studs into the grommets , and then install the taillight onto the body . note reseat the trunk seal over the lh taillight .
release the push clips that attach the lh front wheel arch liner to the vehicle .
disconnect harness from rear of center console note 1x connector
install the cross car beam . see beam cross car .
install the nuts that attach the taillight to the vehicle . 3.2 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 8 mm 12point deep socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench
open the wheel liner to access the lh fog light adjuster .
disconnect usb harness at right front of center console note 1x usb connector
install the rh front carpet . see carpet front rh .
remove center console from vehicle note recommend assistance , tilt rear of console upward , pull assembly towards rear of vehicle , then tilt front of console upward and remove through passenger side
install the lh front carpet . see carpet front lh .
tuck the trunk trim carpet back into position .
install the lh bump stop using the bump stop removal tool .
position 75 kg of ballast in the driver seat .
disconnect the electrical connector from the lh headlight . informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note if the connector has a red locking tab : do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector .
put a piece of tape on the wall 27.5 in from the ground to indicate where the beam should show .
position the headlight tester tool ~11 in . from the front of the lh headlight lens .
confirm that the vehicle is perpendicular to the wall by measuring the distance from the center of each front wheel to the wall . if necessary , reposition the vehicle until the distance between each front wheel to the wall is equal .
use a laser measure to determine the center point of the vehicle . hold the laser measure perpendicular to the wall and project the laser onto the center point of the vehicle . mark the center line on the wall with a piece of tape . figure 5 . determine center line of vehicle
disconnect the center high mounted brake light electrical connector .
remove the fastener that attach the lh headlight to the body . informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note the headlight might not be equipped with a lower fastener . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 2 in extension
adjust the height of the headlight tester tool to ~27.5 in . above the ground to align with the center point of the headlamp .
position the headlight tester tool approximately 30 cm from the front of the lh headlight lens .
holding a laser pointer against the tape on the wall , project a laser beam onto the center point of the vehicle . when the laser beam is aligned with the center of the vehicle , mark the wall at the laser pointer with a piece of tape , adjacent to the tape applied during step 4 . this is the center reference point . tip : aim the laser beam at the flat part of the front fascia cover , directly below the bottom tip of the tesla `` t '' badge . figure 4 . model 3 shown , model y similar
measure 28 in horizontally on either side of the center line , and then mark these measurements . figure 6 . measure 72 cm from center
inform the customer that manual driving is now required to selfcalibrate the camera . note selfcalibration can take up to 100 miles of manual driving , depending upon the road type and condition . until selfcalibration is complete , the message `` autopilot features currently unavailable : manual driving required while camera is calibrating '' is displayed if an attempt is made to engage an autopilot feature .
insert a # 2 phillips head screwdriver into the adjuster , and adjust the fog light vertically to specification . wall target : max 3.0 '' @ 25 ft , min 4.5 `` @ 25ft , ece and sae target : max 0.60 deg , min 0.85 deg .
remove the screws that attach the center high mounted brake light to the package tray .
remove the headlight from the vehicle .
park the vehicle perpendicular to the wall so that the front fascia is flush with the tape that was placed on the ground in the previous step .
connect the headlight tester tool to an electrical outlet , and then turn on the headlight tester tool .
adjust the height of the headlight tester tool to 70 cm above the ground to align with the center axis of the headlight .
put tape on the wall 29.5 in to the left and to the right of the center reference point . these are the left and right reference points .
add a vertical strip of tape to both marks made in the step above to make targets for the horizontal headlight alignment . figure 7 . create alignment targets
lhd models only : install the wiper motor . see wiper module .
repeat steps 78 on the rh fog light .
release the clips that attach the center high mounted brake light to the package tray , and then remove the brake light from the vehicle .
position the lh headlight onto the body . caution do not damage the headlight during installation .
note the height between the ground and the center projector lens on the driver side headlight .
adjust the knobs on the base of the headlight tester tool until the tool is leveled , as indicated by the bubble gauge on the tool . note the bubble must be entirely inside of the center ring in order to properly align the headlights .
if not already activated , enter headlight adjustment mode . on the vehicle touchscreen , touch controls > service > adjust headlamps to enable headlight adjustment mode .
remove lh ip end cap note 3x clips
install the lh air wave duct . see duct air wave lh .
reinstall the push clips that hold the lh and rh front wheel liners to the fascia .
install the center high mounted brake light on the package shelf and secure it with clips .
install the fasteners that attach the lh headlight to the body . 5.9 nm note the headlight might not be equipped with a lower fastener . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 2 in extension
mark a straight line between each of the center projector lenses and the wall . at the point where each line meets the wall , mark the height that was noted in the previous step .
turn on the alignment laser near the top of the tool , and then rotate the tool as necessary to align the laser with the base of both hood struts . figure 1 . lh hood strut
turn on the headlight tester tool .
cover the rh headlight with a clean shop towel ; make sure that all light from the right headlight is blocked .
place weight in the driver 's seat equal to approximately 75 kg .
remove lh mid apillar assembly note 1x clip , 1x tab , release the upper clip then pull mid apillar upward to remove
use the vehicle center display to turn off the fog lights : controls > quick controls > fog lamp .
install the screws that attach the center high mounted brake light to the package tray . 0.5 nm
connect the electrical connector for the lh headlight .
use the touchscreen to turn on the low beam headlights .
on the headlight tester tool , select test us , then select applications > free test .
turn on the alignment laser near the top of the tool , and then rotate the tool as necessary to align the laser with the base of both hood struts . figure 3 . lh hood strut
on the vehicle touchscreen , select left , then use the left scroll wheel on the steering wheel to adjust the beam level . note the top of the rectangular beam aligns with the horizontal tape mark on the wall , and the left edge of the lshaped beam aligns with left reference point . caution do not sit in the vehicle , as this will affect headlight alignment .
if not already activated , enter headlight adjustment mode . on the vehicle touchscreen , touch : controls > service > adjust headlights .
remove lh air wave bezel cap from main decor assembly note 2x clips
install the lh , center , and rh dash speakers . see speaker dash lh .
connect the center high mounted brake light electrical connector .
on the vehicle touchscreen , tap the clock , and then tap install now to start the firmware update . note make sure the firmware package is successfully installed .
cover the rh headlight ; make sure that all light from the right headlight is blocked .
on the headlight tester tool , select headlight , and then use the + or buttons to change the headlight type to `` vor '' .
on the headlight tester tool , select test ec > applications > free test .
remove the cover from the rh headlight .
use a shop towel to completely cover the rh headlight . figure 8 . cover the right headlight
remove lh upper apillar trim note 3x clips , pull inside of the upper portion of upper apillar , remove 3x tether hooks by twisting and pulling away from housing , then pull upper apillar upward to remove
install the rh air wave duct . see duct air wave rh .
remove the headlight . see headlight lh .
open the front lh door .
use a small screwdriver or pry tool in the slot at the front of the puddle light to pry the light out of the bottom of the lh rear door trim panel .
use a small screwdriver or pry tool in the slot at the front of the puddle light to pry the light out of the bottom of the front lh door trim panel .
install the front fascia . see fascia front .
on the steering wheel , use the left scroll wheel to adjust the beam level : target 0.00 '' +/ 1.0 '' caution do not sit in the vehicle , as this will affect headlight alignment . note there might be a delay between the scroll wheel input and actual headlight adjustment output .
on the headlight tester tool , select light , and then use the + or buttons to change the light type to led .
repeat steps 10 through 12 , covering the lh headlight and adjusting the rh headlight .
on the vehicle touch screen , select left .
remove clip for lh lower apillar trim note 1x push clip
install the rh front vent . see vent front rh .
remove the screws that attach the bracket to the headlight , and then remove the bracket from the headlight . note use of the following tool is recommended : torx t25 socket 6 in extension
release the clips that attach the front of the puddle light to the bottom of the door trim panel , and then separate the light from the panel . caution the light electrical harness is very short . do not pull on the harness .
release the clips that attach the front of the puddle light to the bottom of the door trim panel , and then separate the light from the panel . caution do not pull the puddle light too far from the door panel , as the puddle light connector is still attached .
open the vehicle lh front door .
gently pry the trunk light downward to release the clips .
adjust the headlights : headlights adjust na headlights adjust na headlights adjust emea headlights adjust emea headlights adjust global headlights adjust global
adjust the headlight so that the distance between the ground and the top right part of the beam on the wall is 27.5 in .
on the headlight tester tool , select inclination , and then use the + or buttons to set the inclination . note inclination information is located on the headlight .
on the headlight tester tool , select headlight , use the + or buttons to set the headlight type to eu asym , and then use the small button next to the eu asym field to select tmr .
exit the headlight adjustment mode on the center display .
on the steering wheel , use the left scroll wheel to adjust the beam level . adjust the lh headlight so that the top right part of the beam aligns with the tape mark on the wall , and the angled portions align as shown . figure 9 . adjust the lh headlight beam
remove lh lower apillar trim note 1x clip , 2 guide tabs , pull rear of lower apillar upward to release clip then pull rearward to release front tabs from carpet
install the rh footwell duct . see duct footwell lh .
remove bolt that attaches the lh side of the rear fascia to the body . 2 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t25 socket 2 in extension
remove the front wheel that is closest to the front outer parking sensor that is being serviced . see wheel .
install the screws that attach the bracket to the headlight . 1.8 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : torx t25 socket 6 in extension
move the lh front seat backward .
disconnect the electrical harness from the puddle light connector , and then remove the light from the vehicle .
disconnect the electrical wiring harness from the puddle light connector , and then remove the light from the vehicle .
release the vehicle front trunk hood by touching the associated open button on the touchscreen , or touch the front trunk button on the mobile app .
disconnect the electrical connector from the trunk light , and then remove the trunk light from the vehicle .
install the rh side rail trim . see trim side rail lh .
repeat steps 13 through 15 covering the lh headlight and adjusting the rh headlight .
on the headlight tester tool , select height . on the headlight tester tool , select laser , and then position the laser in the middle of the headlight . move the headlight tester tool up or down on the column to the indicated height .
on the headlight tester tool , select light , and then use the + or buttons to set the light type to biled .
when lh headlight adjustment is complete , uncover the rh headlight .
remove screw and clips securing lh footwell cover note 2x push clips , 1x screw , t20 , 2.5 nm
install the lh front vent . see vent front lh .
disconnect the steering wheel electrical wiring harness from the connector .
remove the center console decor trim . see decor trim center console lh .
pull the rear fascia outward to allow clearance to the rear parking sensor .
disconnect the electrical harness from the rear parking distance sensor connector . note do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector .
install the headlight . see headlight lh . caution make sure to adjust the headlights after installing the headlight .
use a trim tool to release the task light from the footwell cover . caution do not remove the task light yet . it is connected to a short electrical harness . note release the cnotch located at the front of the footwell cover .
align the slot of the light toward the front of the vehicle .
connect the trunk light electrical connector .
on the headlight tester tool , select ok .
on the headlight tester tool , select inclinat . , and then use the + or buttons to set the inclination to 0.0 % . note during headlight adjustment in headlight adjustment mode , the inclination is set to 0.0 % . when the vehicle is not in headlight adjustment mode and the headlights are turned on , the inclination is automatically adjusted to the required region specific value .
use a shop towel to completely cover the lh headlight . figure 10 . cover the lh headlight
remove connectors from lh footwell cover and remove from vehicle note 3x tabs , 1x ethernet connector , 1x puddle light connector , apac specific vehicles an additional odii connector will have to be disconnected
install the touchscreen . see touchscreen .
disconnect the electrical harness from the lh steering wheel switch connector .
remove the screws and release the tabs that attach lh and rh bright strips to the center console , and then remove the strips from the console . 1.6 nm
remove the front wheel arch liner that is closest to the parking sensor that is being serviced . see wheel arch liner front lh .
release the clips that attach the rear parking distance sensor to the rear fascia , and then remove the sensor from the rear fascia .
use a small flathead screwdriver to disconnect the electrical harness from the task light , and then remove the task light from the vehicle .
gently push in the trunk light into the lh trunk side trim .
use the touchscreen to turn off the headlights .
choose settings to test and adjust the fog lights , if necessary . see light fog front . note or click ok to skip the fog light setup screen .
on the headlight tester tool , select height , and then use the + or buttons to set the height to 70 cm .
on the vehicle touch screen , select right .
remove fasteners securing driver knee air bag to vehicle note 1x push clip , 2x screws , t20 , 2 nm , 4x patch bolts , t30 , 8 nm , discard after removal , support the knee air bag while lowering , the connector / harness length is very short , newer vehicles have 4x patch bolts , e10
disconnect the electrical harness from the rh steering wheel switch connector .
open the armrest .
release the tabs that attach the rear parking distance sensor to the rear fascia , and then remove the sensor from the rear fascia .
disconnect the electrical harness from the parking sensor . caution if the connector has a redcolored locking tab , do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector .
remove the lh front wheel and the rh front wheel . see wheel .
position the task light on the footwell cover , and then connect the electrical harness to the task light .
install the lh side rail trim . see trim side rail lh .
on the headlight tester tool , select laser to turn on the headlight laser guide .
press ok , and then ok again to skip the fog light settings .
on the steering wheel , use the right scroll wheel to adjust the beam level . adjust the rh headlight so that the top right part of the beam aligns with the tape mark on the wall , and the angled portions align as shown . figure 11 . adjust the rh headlight beam
disconnect the driver knee air bag and remove from vehicle note 1x connector , release locking tab , then release squib from air bag , support air bag while disconnecting , connector release may vary
release the clips that attach the horn assembly , and then move the horn assembly to the side .
release the clips that attach the cupholder decor trim to the cupholder assembly , and then separate the trim from the center console assembly .
release the tabs that attach the front parking distance sensor to the front fascia , and then remove the sensor from the fascia .
push the task light into the footwell cover until it clicks into place .
set up the headlight tester , beissbarth , model 815 . see headlights adjust na . note use the knobs on the base of the headlight tester tool to level the tool . the bubble must be entirely inside of the center ring to level the tool .
on the headlight tester tool , select left low beam , and then select low beam near the bottom of the screen . note the `` l '' and `` r '' indicators at the bottom of the screen are reversed . for example , `` l '' is on the right side and `` r '' is on the left side .
on the headlight tester tool , press the `` laser beam '' button to turn on the headlight laser guide .
when rh headlight adjustment is complete , uncover the lh headlight .
remove the lh footwell duct from hvac module note 1x push clip
install the driver air bag . see airbag driver .
disconnect the electrical harness from the lower connector , and then remove the electrical harness from the steering wheel .
disconnect the electrical harness from the security body controller module connector , and then remove the trim from the vehicle .
remove the lh headlight assembly . see headlight lh .
move the lh front seat back into position .
click ok .
adjust the headlight laser guide crosshair to line up with the vertical and horizontal marks on the lh headlight . note or place a piece of paper against the lh headlight , and then adjust the tool to place the headlight laser guide crosshair over the brightest spot on the paper .
adjust the headlight laser guide crosshair to line up with the center of the headlight lens . note masking the lh headlight with a piece of white paper may aid in aligning the laser guide crosshair with the center of the headlight lens .
exit headlight adjustment mode from the vehicle center display .
remove rh ip end cap note 3x clips
remove the screws that attach the bright surround to the steering wheel , and then remove the surround . 5.4 nm
remove the screws that attach the bright surround to the steering wheel , and then remove the surround .
disconnect the electrical harness from the center console power socket connector .
remove the screws that attach the headlight ecu to the lh headlight assembly .
raise the lh front window .
on the headlight tester tool settings1 fog light screen , set the inclinat . to 1.0 % .
on the headlight tester tool , select laser to turn off the headlight laser guide .
on the headlight tester tool , press the `` laser beam '' button to turn off the headlight laser guide .
remove the weight from the driver 's seat .
remove rh mid apillar assembly note 1x clip , 1x tab , release the upper clip then pull mid apillar upward to remove
remove the screws that attach the rh steering wheel switch to the bright surround , and then remove the switch from the surround . 0.9 nm
remove the screws that attach the lh steering wheel switch to the bright surround , and then remove the switch from the surround .
release the small tabs on the spring cap and slide the power socket inside the cap , so that the openings in the side of the socket align with the large tabs of the cap .
release the electrical connector that connects the headlight ecu to the lh headlight assembly , and then remove the headlight ecu from the lh headlight assembly . remove the seal from the headlight assembly , if necessary . note release the locking tab , and then pry the electrical connector with a flat head screwdriver .
on the headlight tester tool settings2 fog light screen , select yes to set up the fog light test .
close the lh front door .
remove rh air wave bezel cap from main decor assembly note 2x clips
install the rh steering wheel switch into the bright surround , and then install the screws that attach the switch to the surround . 0.9 nm
install the lh steering wheel switch into the bright surround , and then install the screws that attach the switch to the surround . 0.9 nm
release the tabs of the cap and move the power socket and cap together out through the cupholder assembly .
connect the lh headlight ecu connector , and then position the ecu onto the headlight . note position the seal to the headlight ecu , if necessary . note align the electrical connector to the headlight ecu , and then close the locking tab while pushing the connector into the headlight ecu . note make sure that the electrical connector and locking tab are fully seated . note press the headlight ecu downward , and then turn it to align the fastener holes and antirotating guides .
on the headlight tester tool settings2 fog light screen , select led .
on the headlight tester tool , select save to record the results .
on the headlight tester tool , press the lh tmr button on the left side of the screen , and then press the tmr button at the bottom of the screen . note the `` l '' and `` r '' indicators at the bottom of the screen are reversed : `` l '' is on the right side and `` r '' is on the left side .
remove rh upper apillar trim note 3x clips , pull inside of the upper portion of upper apillar , remove 3x tether hooks by twisting and pulling away from housing , then pull upper apillar upward to remove
remove the parking distance sensor from the fascia . see : sensor parking distance inner front sensor parking distance inner rear sensor parking distance outer front sensor parking distance outer rear
remove the trunk trim . see trim lid trunk .
remove the rear view mirror . see mirror rear view .
install the bright surround into the steering wheel , and then install the screws that attach the surround to the steering wheel . 5.4 nm
park the vehicle on a flat surface with at least 106 cm of space in front of the front fascia .
separate the power socket from the cap .
install the screws that attach the headlight ecu to the lh headlight assembly . 2.5 nm
roll the headlight tester tool to the rh headlight , and then position the tool ~30 cm from the front of the rh headlight lens .
on the vehicle touchscreen , touch left .
remove clip for rh lower apillar trim note 1x push clip
install the lh and rh air wave end cap . see end cap air wave lh .
remove the parking distance sensor retainer . note take note of the original installation position of the retainer . mark with a paint pen , if necessary . note the shape of the parking distance sensor retainer will vary slightly depending on location . note use of the following tools is recommended : flathead screwdriver needle nose pliers portable stand
remove the trunk exterior release switch . see switch exterior release trunk .
release the clips that attach the upper quad camera cover , disconnect the occupant camera connector , and then remove the camera cover from the vehicle .
install the electrical harness into the steering wheel , and then connect the electrical harness to the lower connector .
set up the target so that the bottom of the rectangle is 90 cm from the ground .
install the lh headlight assembly . see headlight lh .
perform the headlight test , if necessary . see headlights adjust na .
on the headlight tester tool , select right low beam , and then select low beam near the bottom of the screen . note make sure that high beam is not selected . note the `` l '' and `` r '' indicators at the bottom of the screen are reversed . for example , `` l '' is on the right side and `` r '' is on the left side .
on the steering wheel , use the left scroll wheel to adjust the beam . when adjusted to within specification , the color of the beam indicator on the headlight tester tool will change from red to green . note the vehicle must be loaded with approximately 75 kg in the driver 's seat during headlight alignment . note there might be a delay between the scroll wheel input and the actual headlight adjustment output . figure 4 . model y shown , model 3 similar
remove rh lower apillar trim note 1x clip , 2 guide tabs , pull rear of lower apillar upward to release clip then pull rearward to release front tabs from carpet
disable the `` pin to drive '' feature if it has been enabled . note the radar calibration can not complete if `` pin to drive '' is enabled .
disconnect 12v power . see 12v/lv power . caution perform the 12v disconnect procedure exactly as detailed to avoid unexpected functionality of the homelink transmitter and touchscreen icon .
sand down the areas of installation on the fascia and the new retainer .
install the trunk exterior release switch . see switch exterior release trunk .
on the headlight tester tool , select headlight , and then use the + or buttons to change the headlight type to `` eu asym '' .
release the tabs that attach the occupant camera to to the upper quad camera cover , release the electrical harness from the camera cover , and then remove the camera from the camera cover . note if one or more tabs are broken , the camera may be attached by screws . figure 1 . old camera type figure 2 . new camera type figure 3 . old camera type figure 4 . new camera type
move the horn assembly to the center , and then fasten the clips that attach the horn assembly .
place the target in the appropriate starting position : the checkered portion of the target is facing towards the vehicle . the target is centered with the tesla `` t '' on the hood . the target is placed as close to the front fascia as possible .
on the headlight tester tool , select the laser icon in the lower right corner of the screen .
adjust the headlight laser guide crosshair to line up with the vertical and horizontal marks on the rh headlight .
on the headlight tester tool , press the `` save '' button to record the results for the lh headlight .
remove clips securing rh footwell assembly note 4x push clips
release the clips that attach the upper quad camera cover to the windshield bracket , and then separate the cover from the bracket . caution carefully release the cover from the windshield bracket , as an electrical harness is still attached .
check the vehicle alignment , and adjust if necessary . see four wheel alignment check and adjust .
release the clip that attaches the front radar sensor wiring harness to the front end carrier .
test fit the new retainer with the parking distance sensor installed . mark the position to aid with the installation . note position the retainer so that the parking distance sensor is centered to the fascia . if the retainer is installed incorrectly , the sensor will not fit .
install the trunk trim . see trim lid trunk .
on the headlight tester tool , select light , and then use the + or buttons to change the light type to biled .
connect the electrical harness to the rh steering wheel switch connector .
make sure that the target is on flat ground by examining the bubble level on the back of the target .
install the lh front wheel and the rh front wheel . see wheel .
adjust the headlight tester tool horizontal and vertical position to place the headlight laser guide crosshair over the center of the lh fog light . note the headlight tester tool should be positioned ~300 mm from surface of lh fog light lens . adjust the headlight tester tool height as necessary to match the center point of the fog light . operating range for the tester is 200500 mm .
move the headlight tester tool to the rh headlight , position the tool ~30 cm from the front of the rh headlight lens .
disconnect rh foot well assembly connectors and remove from vehicle note 2x electrical connectors
fasten the tabs that attach the front parking distance sensor to the front fascia , and then remove the sensor from the fascia .
disconnect the electrical harness from the occupant camera on the inside of the upper quad camera cover , and then remove the camera cover from the vehicle .
disconnect the electrical harness connector from the radar sensor .
disconnect the electrical connector from the homelink transmitter module .
remove the rh middle apillar trim . see trim apillar middle lh .
clean the installation areas of the fascia and retainer with an isopropyl alcohol wipe . note allow 1 minute for surfaces to dry before continuing .
on the headlight tester tool , select inclination , and then use the + or buttons to set the inclination to `` 1.0 % '' .
connect the electrical harness to the lh steering wheel switch connector .
apply a piece of red tape on the target so that the top of the tape is 128 cm from the ground . note the checker pattern on the target is used for vehicles with 1st generation autopilot . ignore the checker pattern when affixing the tape .
turn off the laser guide .
on the steering wheel , use the right scroll wheel on the steering wheel to adjust the beam level : target 0.00 '' +/ 1.0 '' caution do not sit in the vehicle while using the scroll wheel as this will affect headlight alignment . note there might be a delay between the scroll wheel input and actual headlight adjustment output .
align the tool to the rh headlight .
remove fasteners securing passenger knee air bag to vehicle note 4x patch bolts , t30 , 8 nm , discard after removal , 2x screws , t20 , 2 nm , 1x push clip , newer vehicles have 4x patch bolts , e10
remove the triple camera hood . see hood triple camera .
with an assistant , use toolbox to perform a radar drive cycle calibration : warning perform the calibration procedure in a suitable location and comply with all local traffic safety laws . note be prepared to drive the vehicle once the calibration process is initiated . the calibration routine takes between 2 to 5 minutes to complete . when finished , calibration results are displayed in a popup message in the calibration routine window .
release the clips that attach the radar sensor to the front radar sensor bracket , and then remove the sensor from the vehicle .
release the tab , and then slide the homelink transmitter module to the right to remove it from the vehicle .
prepare and mix the 3m 810 acrylic adhesive/scotch weld applicator .
on the headlight tester tool , select height , and then use the + or buttons to change the height to `` 70 cm '' .
connect the steering wheel electrical harness to the connector .
remove the lower quad camera cover . see quad camera cover lower .
to begin the fog light test , select the lh fog light icon on the headlight tester tool touchscreen , and then select the fog light button at the bottom of the screen .
on the headlight tester tool , press the rh tmr button on the right side of the screen , and then press the tmr button at the bottom of the screen . note the `` l '' and `` r '' indicators at the bottom of the screen are reversed : `` l '' is on the right side and `` r '' is on the left side .
remove the passenger knee air bag from vehicle note 1x connector , release locking tab , connector release may vary
remove the screws that attach the mount plate to the forward facing camera and the windshield bracket , and then remove the mount plate from the vehicle .
install the front radar sensor into the bracket .
install the homelink transmitter module on the bracket .
release the clips that attach the rh front carpet to the rh footwell .
apply the 3m 810 acrylic adhesive to the installation area . caution avoid putting excess adhesive . caution apply carefully and do not allow the adhesive to seep into the center of the retainer where the sensor will seat .
on the headlight tester tool , select ok and then select ok again to skip the fog light setup screen .
test and adjust the fog lights , if necessary . see light fog front .
on the vehicle touchscreen , touch right .
remove main decor assembly note the whole decor does not need to come off . if you lift the rh side of the decor you will have enough space to remove the 3 torx screws that secure the top of the glovebox , replace securing clips as needed
install the windshield washer reservoir . see reservoir windshield washer .
disconnect the electrical harness from the forward facing camera connectors .
connect the front radar sensor electrical connector .
connect the electrical connector to the homelink transmitter module .
fold back the rh front carpet .
install the retainer and secure the fixture tool . caution prevent adhesive from entering the center hole of the retainer . caution clean off any residue that may enter with an ipa wipe . otherwise , the parking distance sensor will not seat properly . note install the fixture tool to secure the retainer while adhesive cures . note the fixture tool is self centering .
on the headlight tester tool , select the `` laser beam '' button to turn on the headlight laser guide .
insert a # 2 phillips head screwdriver into the adjuster , and then adjust the fog light vertically to specification .
on the headlight tester tool , select save again to view test results .
on the steering wheel , use the left scroll wheel to adjust the beam level . when adjusted to within specification , the color of the beam indicator on the headlight tester tool will change from red to green . note the vehicle must be loaded with approximately 75 kg in the driver 's seat during headlight alignment . note there might be a delay between the scroll wheel input and actual headlight adjustment output . figure 5 . model y shown , model 3 similar
perform the platter enclosure air leak test . see platter enclosure air leak test .
remove the forward facing camera from the vehicle . tip : rotate the electrical connectors to the side to allow better grip of the forward facing camera .
observe the onscreen driving instructions to prepare for the calibration procedure , and then click ok .
connect the front radar sensor wiring harness to the front end carrier clip .
disconnect the electrical connectors from the rh body controller module .
apply additional adhesive to the outer edge of the retainer .
adjust the headlight laser guide crosshair to line up with the vertical and horizontal marks on the lh headlight . note some early production headlights do not have the vertical and horizontal headlight marks . in this case : adjust the height of the machine to 70 cm as indicated on the machine height adjustment post . measure 14.7 cm from the front corner of the front fender to the bottom edge of the headlight . note alternatively , the laser guide crosshair can be aimed at the brightest spot on a piece of paper placed against the headlight . figure 4 . image a : approximate locations of the headlight markings are indicated by the small blue lines figure 5 . image b : manual alignment of laser guides when headlight markings are not available
review the freezeframe narrow and main images : note the upper green line indicates a 2.0 degrees pitch . the lower green line indicates a +1.5 degree pitch . ideally , the top of the red tape should coincide with the blue horizontal line . however , if the top of the red tape is between the green lines , that is sufficient . if the top of the red tape is between the two green lines , the forward facing camera is within calibration . go to step 8 . if the top of the red tape is not between the two green lines , the forward facing camera needs adjustment . continue to the next step to adjust the camera .
close the front trunk hood .
on the headlight tester tool , press the `` save '' button to record the results for the rh headlight , and then press `` save '' again to view the results for both headlights .
remove screws securing glove box assembly to ip carrier note 6x screws , t20 , 2.3 nm
clean the inner windshield camera viewing area with a clean microfiber cloth and glass cleaner . let the windshield fully dry before continuing . caution verify that the windshield has no stains or leftover residue . otherwise , autopilot features may be hindered .
press the brake pedal , and then shift into drive .
release the lock , and then disconnect the rh front door electrical connector from the rh body controller module .
allow 20 minutes for adhesive to reach handling strength .
on the headlight tester tool , select the `` laser beam '' button to turn off the headlight laser guide .
use a pitch adjustment wrench to adjust the camera pitch so that the top of the red tape will be between the 2 green lines . note rotating the pitch adjustment wrench counterclockwise will move the red tape up . rotating the pitch adjustment wrench clockwise will move the red tape down . 1 full rotation of the pitch adjustment wrench changes the pitch by approximately 1 degree .
adjust the headlights . see headlights adjust na .
roll the headlight tester tool to the rh fog light and repeat step 14 through step 20 .
on the touchscreen , select done .
press the `` print '' button to print out the results , if desired .
remove the glove box from ip carrier note 3x clips
install the hv harness connector to the ptc heater .
install the forward facing camera to the windshield bracket , and then connect the electrical harness to the camera connectors .
disconnect the electrical harness from the steering wheel controls ecu connector , and then remove the electrical harness from the steering wheel .
release the connector lock , and then disconnect the driver seat electrical connector from the rh body controller module .
remove the retainer fixture tool .
when both fog lights have been tested , on the headlight tester tool select the save icon again to view the test results .
close the front trunk .
disconnect glove box assembly connectors note 3x electrical connectors
install the mount plate to the forward facing camera and the windshield bracket , and then install the screws that attach the mount plate to the camera and bracket . 1 nm
release the brake pedal and proceed to drive the vehicle to begin the calibration procedure .
remove the screws that attach the bright surround to the steering wheel , and then remove the surround . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : t20 socket
in toolbox , click the actions tab , type `` homelink '' in the search field , click on testself_ vcfront_x_homelink and then select run .
disconnect the instrument panel harness coaxial cable from the rh body controller module .
install the parking distance sensor from the fascia . see : sensor parking distance inner front sensor parking distance inner rear sensor parking distance outer front sensor parking distance outer rear
on the headlight tester tool , select the `` left low beam '' button on the left side of the screen , and then select the `` low beam '' button at the bottom of the screen . note make sure that high beam is not selected . note the `` l '' and `` r '' indicators at the bottom of the screen are reversed . for example , `` l '' is on the right side and `` r '' is on the left side .
repeat the procedure from step 4 .
on the touchscreen , exit the headlight adjustment mode .
remove the passenger footwell air duct note 1x push clip
install the triple camera hood . see hood triple camera .
make sure that no radar related alerts are triggered .
perform the front radar sensor calibration procedure . see sensor radar front .
remove the screws that attach the steering wheel controls ecu to the bright surround , and then remove the ecu from the surround . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : t10 torx bit
disconnect the hvac electrical connector from the rh body controller module .
on the vehicle touchscreen , select left .
install the rear view mirror trim . see quad camera cover lower .
disconnect rh upper duct thermistor from rh ip air wave duct note 1x connector
bring the upper quad camera cover to the windshield bracket , and then connect the electrical harness to the occupant camera on the inside of the cover .
reenable `` pin to drive '' if it was previously disabled .
install the steering wheel controls ecu into the bright surround , and then install the screws that attach the ecu to the surround . 0.9 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : t10 torx bit
disconnect the front harness connector from the rh body controller module .
on the steering wheel , use the left scroll wheel to adjust the beam level . when adjusted to within specification , the beam indicator on the headlight tester tool will change from red to green . caution do not sit in the vehicle , as this will affect headlight alignment . note there might be a delay between the scroll wheel input and actual headlight adjustment output .
remove the rh ip air wave duct note 2x push clips
fasten the clips that attach the upper quad camera cover to the windshield bracket . note make sure that the connector for the rear view mirror passes through the opening in the upper quad camera cover .
install the bright surround into the steering wheel , and then install the screws that attach the surround to the steering wheel . 5.4 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : t20 socket
release the clip that attaches the inline electrical connector to the rh body controller module , and then disconnect the electrical connector .
on the headlight tester tool , select the `` save '' button to record the results .
remove the target from the front of the vehicle .
release spring clip securing driver air bag assembly to steering wheel and pull driver air bag assembly away from steering wheel note 2x spring clips , 3x datums , press the spring simultaneously from two access holes to release , access holes located at 4 and 8 o ’ clock position , do not insert tool too far as air bag connector could be damaged
install the rear view mirror . see mirror rear view .
install the electrical harness into the steering wheel , and then connect the electrical harness to the steering wheel controls ecu connector .
remove and discard the nut that attaches the 12v power cable to the lh body controller module . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm 12point deep socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 4 in extension
roll the headlight tester tool to the rh headlight , position the tool ~30 cm from the front of the rh headlight lens .
the vehicle needs to be driven by the customer to complete the calibration procedure . note selfcalibration can take up to 100 miles of manual driving , depending upon the road type and condition . until selfcalibration is complete , the message `` autopilot features currently unavailable : manual driving required while camera is calibrating '' is displayed if an attempt is made to engage an autopilot feature .
disconnect driver air bag connector and remove driver air bag assembly note 1x connector
adjust the forward facing camera . see camera forward facing .
remove the dcdc positive cable from the rh body controller module . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm 12point deep socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 2 in extension
align the tool to the rh headlight .
disconnect steering wheel connector note 1x connector
install the front passenger seat . see seat driver .
open all doors and lower all windows . note latch the lh and rh rear doors to prevent accidental closing when power is down .
on the touchscreen , power off the climate control system , and wait at least 30 seconds for the climate control system to completely shut down .
connect the body 2 electrical connector to the lh body controller module .
on the headlight tester tool , select the `` right low beam '' button on the right side of the screen , and then select the `` low beam '' button at the bottom of the screen . note make sure that high beam is not selected . note the `` l '' and `` r '' indicators at the bottom of the screen are reversed . for example , `` l '' is on the right side and `` r '' is on the left side .
remove bolt securing steering wheel to steering column note 1x patch bolt , 10mm hex , 80 nm , discard after removal , counter hold the steering wheel when breaking bolt loose
install the driver and front passenger footwell cover . see cover footwell driver .
open the glove box .
connect the body 1 electrical connector to the lh body controller module .
on the vehicle touchscreen , select right .
remove steering wheel from steering column
install the lh and rh upper apillar trim . see trim apillar upper lh .
open the front doors .
remove the rear underhood apron . see underhood apron rear . caution do not proceed until the climate control system has been powered off for at least 30 seconds . do not disconnect 12v power while the climate control system is operational .
connect the body 3 electrical connector to the lh body controller module .
pull upward to release steering column upper shroud from lower shroud note 4x clips
install the lh and rh lower apillar trim . see trim apillar lower lh .
open all 4 doors and lower all 4 windows .
open the trunk by pressing the exterior switch .
remove the glove box . see glove box without knee airbags . note for rhd vehicles , remove the passenger footwell cover . see cover footwell passenger .
disconnect the 3 inline electrical connectors at the rh lower apillar area .
on the headlight tester tool , select the `` save '' button to record results , and then select `` save '' again to view the results .
remove upper screws securing lower shroud to steering column note 2x screws , t20 , 1.5 nm
install the lh and rh middle apillar trim . see trim apillar middle lh .
remove the lh and rh air wave bezel caps . see end cap air wave lh .
release the clips that attach the hvac plenum outer duct to the hvac plenum inner duct , and then remove the outer duct .
disconnect the trailer hitch jumper harness electrical connector from the trailer hitch ecu .
release the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the rh lower apillar area .
remove lower screw securing lower shroud to steering column note 1x screw , t20 , 1.5 nm
repeat steps 4 and 5 for the rh side of the vehicle .
remove the lh upper apillar trim . see trim apillar upper lh .
remove the bolt that attaches the thermal beam electrical harness cover to the front body controller module , and then remove the cover .
release the locking tab , and then disconnect the thermal subassembly harness from the front controller .
open the liftgate .
carefully use a clip prytool to release the fir tree clip that attaches the trailer hitch jump harness to the trailer hitch assembly .
remove the lh air wave duct . see duct air wave lh .
remove the lh middle apillar trim . see trim apillar middle lh .
release the clips that attach the rh body electrical harness to the rh body controller module .
on the touchscreen , exit headlight adjustment mode .
remove lower shroud from steering column
remove the driver sun visor . see sun visor driver .
disconnect the thermal beam electrical harness from the front body controller module connector .
release the clip that attaches the thermal subassembly harness to the front harness guide cover .
remove the bolts and nuts that attach the trailer hitch jumper harness to the bracket on the trailer hitch assembly . note remember that the bolts are inserted from the bottom .
repeat steps 5 and 6 for the rh side of the vehicle .
release the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the ip carrier .
in toolbox , click actions , type `` sccm '' in the search field , click play next to `` pingtp_sccm '' , and then select run .
move the rh body harness away from the rh body controller module .
remove bolt securing sccm to steering column note 1x bolt , 5mm allen , 9 nm
install the inner hvac plenum duct . see duct hvac plenum inner .
release the driver sun visor base cover clips , and then remove the base cover from the vehicle .
release the clip that attaches the suction/liquid lines to the body near the txv .
release the clip that attaches the thermal subassembly harness to the rh side of the coolant bottle .
release the clips that attach the rh side rail trim to the vehicle , and then let the side rail hang from the tethers . see trim side rail lh .
maneuver the jumper harness through the opening in the bracket on the trailer hitch assembly and then remove the trailer hitch jumper harness .
disconnect the clips that attach the lh front door electrical connectors to the lh body controller module .
release the clip that attaches the wiring harness to the rh body controller module .
disconnect steering column control module assembly connector note 1x connector , remove retaining clip on the connector , release connector , then remove the remaining broken clip from connector , discard retaining clip after removal , originally installed clip is black , replacement clip is orange
remove the bolt that attach the driver sun visor base to the body , and remove the base from the vehicle .
remove the bolt that attaches the thermal beam electrical harness ground terminal to the compressor .
remove the rh upper cpillar trim . see trim cpillar upper lh .
remove the trunk load floor . see guidd937e1498c0b486fa555376066be8144.html .
maneuver the jumper harness through the opening in the bracket on the trailer hitch assembly .
release the connector lock , and then disconnect the lh front door electrical connector from the lh body controller module .
remove the 12v battery strap . see strap 12v battery .
click actions , type `` testpyro '' in the search field , click play next to `` testpyro_rcm_x_dabstage1 '' , and then select run .
remove and discard the nut that attaches the rh body controller module to the body . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 2 in extension
remove sccm from steering column
remove the rh front floor mat .
disconnect the lh air wave duct thermistor connector .
disconnect the thermal beam electrical harness from the compressor connector .
power off vehicle from center display note via controls > safety & security > vehicle power > power off , confirm power off at warning dialogue box
release the clip and tabs that attach the rh rear cpillar trim to the body , and then set the trim aside . note the seatbelt will still be attached to the rear cpillar trim . figure 1 . lh shown ; rh similar
connect the trailer hitch jumper harness electrical connector to the trailer hitch ecu .
release the connector lock , and then disconnect the front seat electrical connector from the lh body controller module .
remove the bolt that attaches the 12v battery rear hook tie down to the body , and then remove the tie down from the body .
click actions , type `` testpyro '' in the search field , click play next to `` testpyro_rcm_x_dabstage2 '' , and then select run .
slide the rh body controller upwards to release the wclip , then move the rh body controller out from underneath the instrument panel , and then remove the rh body controller from the vehicle .
release ip service panel from ip and disconnect temperature sensor connector note 4x clips , 4x tabs , 1x connector
remove the clips that attach the lh air wave duct , and then remove the duct .
disconnect the thermal beam electrical harness from the high pressure transducer connector .
remove rear apron note 12x clips , only store the rear apron visible face upwards
disconnect the electrical connector from the powertrain coolant pump . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector .
release the clips that attach the package tray trim to the body .
maneuver the trailer hitch jumper harness so that the holes are aligned and the adapter cover opens towards the left .
release the connector lock , and then disconnect the instrument panel electrical connector from the lh body controller module .
remove the 12v battery bracket . see bracket 12v battery .
if the rh body controller module has a shroud installed , release the clips that attach the shroud to the module . note a shroud should be installed on the new body controller module even if one was not present during removal .
remove bolts securing center display to ip carrier note vehicle may be equipped with either : 2x patch bolts , t30 , 12 nm or 2x patch bolts , 10mm , 16 nm , discard after removal , slide towards rear of vehicle to remove
remove the forward facing camera . see camera triple forward facing .
disconnect the glove box usb cable from the car computer .
carefully position inflatable air bags in between the deck lid and package tray to gain access to the deck lid harness .
insert the bolts from the bottom through the holes and hand tighten the nuts on the top of the trailer hitch jumper harness . tighten the bolts and nuts . 2.5 nm caution make sure the bolts are inserted from the bottom of the jumper harness .
disconnect the hvac electrical connector from the lh body controller module .
remove the bolt that attaches the thermal harness cover to the front body controller module , and then remove the cover from the module .
remove bolts securing housing neck to center display and slide away from display note 2x bolts , t30 , 3 nm , number of fasteners on older vehicles may vary
disconnect the trunk electrical harness connectors . note move and adjust the package tray as needed to gain access to the connectors .
release the clip that attaches the charge port jumper cable to the charge port busbar .
remove retaining clip from display connector note 1x clip
inject oil into the a/c system .
disconnect harness connector from center display note 1x connector
release the clip that attaches the rh front carpet to the body at the rh apillar .
disconnect the coaxial cable connector .
disconnect the connector from the harness guide at the rh lower apillar area .
release the clips that attach the rh body harness to the rh body controller module area .
release the clips that attach the rh body harness to the instrument panel .
release the connector lock , and then disconnect the j2 body electrical connector from the rh body controller module .
disconnect the j6 underhood storage unit electrical connector from the rh body controller module .
disconnect the j12 body electrical connector from the rh body controller module .
disconnect the j5 body electrical connector from the rh body controller module .
release the connector lock , and then disconnect the j4 body electrical connector from the rh body controller module .
remove the driver 's seat . see seat driver . tip : alternatively , this procedure can be performed with the seat in the vehicle . remove and discard the bolts that attach the seat to the body , and then tilt the seat fore and aft as necessary to complete the steps in this procedure . caution always make sure to disconnect 12v power before disconnecting any electrical connector . see 12v/lv power .
remove the driver 's seat seat back shell . see shell seat back driver .
unhook the lower flaps that cover the lh and rh lower corners of the seat back frame .
unhook the upper flaps that cover the lh and rh lower corners of the seat back frame .
release the clips that attach the outboard side of the seat back cover to the seat back frame , and then expose the air bag connector .
disconnect the electrical harness from the side airbag connector .
disconnect the electrical harness from the recliner motor connector .
disconnect the electrical harness from the ecu connector .
remove the nuts that attach the superbottle to the thermal beam .
release the clips that attach the thermal beam electrical harness to the compressor and compressor bracket .
disconnect the electrical connector from the battery coolant pump . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector .
remove the upper bolts that attach the battery bracket to the vehicle .
position the shroud by itself in position on the vehicle . caution a shroud should be installed on the body controller module even if one was not present during removal . note position the shroud vertical and move it up above the computer , and then pivot the lower edge so that the shroud sits horizontally .
repeat steps 1 through 7 on the rh side of the vehicle .
release the glove box usb harness clips and remove the harness from the vehicle .
disconnect the thermal beam electrical harness from the low pressure transducer connector .
disconnect the electrical connector from the octovalve . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector .
install the fir tree clip that attaches the trailer hitch jump harness to the trailer hitch assembly .
disconnect the inline electrical harness connector x909 from the lh body harness , and then separate it from the lh body controller module .
disconnect the thermal harness from the front body controller module connector .
release the clip that attaches the coolant hose to the 12v battery bracket .
maneuver the rh body controller module into position under the ip carrier , and then install the 2 clips that attach the shroud to the module . note make sure that both clips are fully seated .
release the clips that attach the headliner by pulling downwards at the front center of the headliner .
disconnect the thermal beam electrical harness from the chiller and exv assembly connector .
disconnect hvc logic connector and install logic cap note 1x connector , 1x cap , release locking tab then push the handle downward to release connector
remove the bolt that attaches the ground strap to the body . caution take care when using hand tools near the backlight glass and defroster grid .
disconnect the charge port jumper cable from the ecu and remove the harness from the vehicle .
remove and discard the nut that attaches the 12v power cable to the lh body controller module , and then remove the 12v power cable from the lh body controller module . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm 12point deep socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 4 in extension
release the connector lock , and then disconnect the driver seat electrical connector from the lh body controller module .
release the clip that attaches the suction / liquid a/c combination lines to the body near the txv , and then move the electrical harness aside to gain access to the front body controller module .
release the clip that attaches the 12v battery vent hose to the 12v battery bracket .
align the wclip with the body cutout , and then slide down to attach the rh body controller to the body .
disconnect the windshield harness electrical connectors , and then pull the windshield harness up through the opening on the instrument panel .
disconnect the thermal beam electrical harness from the coolant temperature sensor connector .
inspect the ground strap bolt : figure 2 . trilobular bolt shaft if the bolt is trilobular , replace it with a regular bolt . if the bolt is a regular bolt , set the bolt aside for reuse .
disconnect the front wiring harness connector from the lh body controller module .
release the connector lock , and then disconnect the instrument panel electrical connector from the lh body controller module .
remove the bolts that attach the front body controller module cover to the front body controller module , and then remove the cover .
loosen the inner bolts that attach the shock tower brace to the rh shock tower .
install new nut that attaches the rh body controller module to the vehicle . tip : 10 mm socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 2 in extension
remove center display from vehicle
test the a/c function and make sure that the hvac blows cold air .
release the clips that attach the windshield harness to the rh apillar .
disconnect the thermal beam electrical harness from the 5way valve actuator connector .
inspect hv insulating gloves note check gloves for damage prior to each use , refer to service document tn1592003 r5 , for information on inspecting hv gloves , https : //service.tesla.com/docs/servicebulletins/external/tn/tn1592003_high_voltage_awareness_care_points_r5.pdf
push the trunk electrical wiring harness through the bulkhead .
release the clip s that attach the rh front carpet to the rh footwell .
d isconnect the body 3 electrical connector from the lh body controller module .
disconnect the hvac electrical connector from the lh body controller module .
disconnect the electrical harness from the front body controller module connectors .
loosen the outer bolt that attaches the shock tower brace to the rh shock tower .
install the clip that attaches the wiring harness to the rh body controller .
remove center display neck housing from vehicle
release the clips that attach the windshield harness along the top portion the windshield , and then remove the harness from the vehicle .
disconnect the thermal beam electrical harness from the hv battery coolant pump connector .
release the clip that attaches the harness to the a/c compressor hv harness bracket .
remove the trunk trim panel . see trim lid trunk .
disconnect the body 1 electrical connector from the lh body controller module .
remove and discard the nuts and bolt that attach the power and ground cables to the front body controller module .
remove the inner bolts that attach the shock tower brace to the lh shock tower .
move the rh body harness towards the right side of the rh body controller , and then install attach the harness clips to the rh body controller .
remove screws securing lh side of ip brow finisher note 4x screws , t20 , 2.3 nm , fastener count may vary , older production vehicles may have 5x screws
secure the clips that attach the windshield harness to the rh apillar .
disconnect the thermal beam electrical harness from the powertrain coolant pump connector .
remove bolts securing penthouse probe lid cover to penthouse cover note 2x bolts , e10 5lobe , 6 nm , discard after removal
disconnect the lh and rh trunk light connectors . figure 3 . lh figure 4 . rh
remove the nuts that attach the rh side carpet locator bracket to the vehicle , and then remove the rh side carpet locator bracket from the vehicle . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket ¼ in std ratchet 2 in extension note some vehicles may be equipped with push clips instead .
d isconnect the body 2 electrical connector from the lh body controller module .
remove the bolts that attach the front body controller module to the body .
remove the outer bolt that attaches the shock tower brace to the lh shock tower .
connect the body 3 electrical connector onto the rh body controller module . note make sure that the body 3 electrical connector lock is fully engaged .
remove screws securing rh side of ip brow finisher note 4x screws , t20 , 2.3 nm , fastener count may vary , older production vehicles may have 5x screws
connect the windshield harness electrical connectors .
release the clip that attaches the thermal beam electrical harness to the superbottle .
remove penthouse probe lid cover from the penthouse cover
disconnect the backup camera connector , the trunk handle connector , and the lh and rh license plate light connectors .
disconnect the electrical connector from the headliner electrical connector .
release the clips that attach the bottom of the front body controller module to the body , and then remove the lower busbar from the stud .
shift the lh side of the shock tower brace towards the front of the vehicle to increase working space .
connect the body 1 electrical connector onto the rh body controller module . note make sure that the body 1 electrical connector lock is fully engaged .
remove ip brow finisher from vehicle note 16x clips , need to lift top pad up slightly to insert trim tool and release clips , then slide ip brow finisher towards rear of vehicle
install the forward facing camera . see camera triple forward facing .
release the clip that attaches the thermal beam electrical harness to the chiller and exv assembly hose , and then remove the electrical harness from the hose .
release the locking tab , and then disconnect the electrical connector from the high pressure and temperature sensor . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector . figure 1 . some components hidden for clarity
disconnect the trunk latch connector .
release the electrical harness clips that attach the lh body controller module to the vehicle .
d isconnect the body 3 electrical connector from the lh body controller module .
remove the bolt that attaches the ground strap to the upper rear of the front body controller module , and then remove the ground strap from the module .
connect the body 2 electrical connector onto the rh body controller module . note make sure that the body 2 electrical connector lock is fully engaged .
pull rh side of rh air duct out and release from ip note 1x screw , t20 , 2.3 nm
secure the windshield harness with the clips along the top of the windshield .
inspect penthouse probe lid cover gasket then position onto the penthouse cover note confirm no visual damage present , good to reuse seal
release the locking tab , and then disconnect the electrical connector from the recirc exv . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector . figure 2 . some components hidden for clarity
remove and discard the bolts that attach the trunk electrical harness ground straps to the trunk lid .
release the connector lock , and then disconnect the front passenger seat electrical connector from the rh body controller module .
move the lh body harness away from the lh body controller module .
remove the bolt that attaches the ground strap to the lower right side of the front body controller module , and then remove the ground strap from the module .
install the harness clips onto the lower ip carrier .
disconnect harness connector from rh air duct and remove duct note 1x connector
install the clips that attach the front center of the headliner to the body .
release the clip that attaches the thermal beam electrical harness to the suction/liquid lines .
install bolts securing penthouse probe lid cover to penthouse cover note 2x bolts , e10 5lobe , 6 nm , install new fasteners
release the locking tab , and then disconnect the electrical connector from the liquid cooled condenser exv . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector . figure 3 . some components hidden for clarity
inspect both ground strap bolts : figure 5 . trilobular bolt shaft if the bolt is trilobular , replace it with a regular bolt . if the bolt is a regular bolt , set the bolt aside for reuse .
release the clip that attaches the lh front door electrical harness to the lh body controller module .
remove the bolt that attaches the ground strap to the lower rear of the front body controller module , and then remove the ground strap from the module .
release the clip that attaches the suction/liquid lines to the body near the txv , and then move the electrical harness aside to gain access to the front body controller module .
install the dcdc positive cables onto the rh body controller module . 8.5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm 12point deep socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 2 in extension
pull lh side of lh air duct out and release from ip note 1x screw , t20 , 2.3 nm
install the bolt that attach the front passenger visor base to the body . 3 nm figure 1 . lh side shown , rh similar
disconnect the thermal beam electrical harness from the superbottle level sensor connector .
raise vehicle fully and lower lift onto locks note set vehicle to comfortable working height , make sure there 's an audible click of the locks on both sides before lowering , otherwise vehicle may tilt to the side , verify doors are clear of surrounding objects
release the locking tab , and then disconnect the electrical connector from the liquid cooled condenser shut off valve . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector . figure 4 . some components hidden for clarity
release the clips that attach the trunk harness to the trunk lid .
disconnect the instrument panel electrical connector from the rh body controller module .
remove and discard the nut that attaches the lh body controller module to the vehicle . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm 12point deep socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 2 in extension
remove the front body controller module from the vehicle .
install new nut that attaches the 12v power cable to the rh body controller module . 8.5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm 12point deep socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 4 in extension
disconnect harness connector from lh air duct and remove duct note 1x connector
install the front passenger sun visor base cover clips .
disconnect the thermal beam electrical harness from the powertrain pump to sill hose coolant temperature sensor connector .
remove mid aero shield note 13x bolts , 10mm , 5 nm
release the locking tab , and then disconnect the electrical connector from the right side cabin condenser exv . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector . figure 5 . some components hidden for clarity
push the harness through the trunk bulkhead and out of the trunk lid .
disconnect the hvac electrical connector from the rh body controller module .
slide the lh body controller upwards to release the wclip , and then move the lh body controller module out from underneath the instrument panel .
set the front body controller module where it installs into the vehicle , and then tilt the module forward
connect the inline electrical connector , and then attach it to the rh body controller module .
release clips securing defroster grill note 8x clips , replace any damaged clips
install the front passenger sun visor . see sun visor driver .
remove the bolt that attaches the thermal beam electrical harness ground terminal to the rh shear wall .
remove bolts securing the rear diffuser to body note 6x bolts , 10mm , 4 nm , 2x fastener covers
release the locking tab , and then disconnect the electrical connector from the high pressure and temperature subcool sensor . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector . figure 6 . some components hidden for clarity
move the trunk electrical harness in through the trunk bulkhead .
remove the lh body controller module from the vehicle .
install the ground strap to the lower rear of the front body controller module , and then install the bolt that attaches the ground strap to the module . 9 nm
connect the front wiring harness electrical connector onto the rh body controller module .
pivot rear edge of defroster grill up and release tabs from ip note 6x tabs
release the connector lock , and then disconnect the j1 power electrical connector from the rh body controller module .
install the rh upper apillar trim . see trim apillar upper lh .
release the clips that attach the thermal beam electrical harness to the shock tower brace .
remove outer bolts securing rear diffuser to rear fascia assembly note 4x bolts , 10mm , 3 nm
release the locking tab , and then disconnect the electrical connector from the left side cabin condenser exv . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector . figure 7 . some components hidden for clarity
fasten the clips that attach the trunk electrical harness to the trunk lid .
release the clips that attach the shroud to the module . note a shroud should be installed on the new body controller module .
install the ground strap to the lower right side of the front body controller module , and then install the bolt that attaches the ground strap to the module . 9 nm
connect the hvac electrical connector onto the rh body controller module .
remove screws securing lh speaker to ip and remove speaker note 3x screws , t20 , 2.3 nm , 1x connector
release the clip that attaches the black connector to the rh body controller module .
remove the thermal beam electrical harness from the vehicle
remove lower clips securing lh rear wheel liner note 3x push clips
release the locking tab , and then disconnect the electrical connector from the chiller exv . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector . figure 8 . some components hidden for clarity
install new bolts to attach the trunk electrical harness ground straps to the trunk lid . 8 nm
remove and discard the nuts that attach the electrical wiring to the rh body controller module , and remove the electrical wiring from the rh body controller module . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 2 in extension
install the clip that attach the shroud to the lh body controller module . note make sure that both clips are fully seated so that the edge of the shroud is parallel with the line on the back of the lh body controller module . caution a shroud should be installed on the body controller module even if one was not present during removal .
install the ground strap to the upper rear of the front body controller module , and then install the bolt that attaches the ground strap to the module . 9 nm
connect the instrument panel electrical connector onto the rh body controller module .
remove screws securing center speaker to ip and remove speaker note 1x connector , 3x screws , t20 , 2.3 nm
release the connector lock , and then disconnect the j7 door electrical connector from the rh body controller module .
fasten the clips that attach the thermal beam electrical harness to the shock tower brace .
remove lower clips securing the rh rear wheel liner note 3x push clips
release the locking tab , and then disconnect the electrical connector from the evap exv . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector . figure 9 . some components hidden for clarity
connect the trunk electrical harness to the trunk latch connector .
remove the dcdc positive cables from the rh body controller module . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm 12point deep socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 2 in extension
maneuver the lh body controller module into position under the ip carrier . align the wclip with the body cutout , and then slide down to attach the lh body controller module to the body .
slide the busbar onto the lower stud , and then fasten the electrical harness clips to the bottom of the front body controller module .
connect the instrument panel harness coaxial cable onto the rh body controller module .
remove screws securing center tweeter to ip and remove speaker note 1x connector , 2x screws , t20 , 2.3 nm
release the connector lock , and then disconnect the j9 front passenger seat electrical connector from the rh body controller module .
install the bolt that attaches the thermal beam electrical harness ground terminal to the rh shear wall . 10 nm
remove bolts securing rear lower fascia to rear fascia diffuser note 2x bolts , 10mm , 3 nm
loosen the bolts that attach the supermanifold to the shock tower brace .
connect the trunk electrical harness to the rh and lh license plate light connectors , the trunk handle connector , and the backup camera connector .
release the electrical harness clips from underneath the ip carrier .
install new nut that attaches the lh body controller module onto the body . 6 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm 12point deep socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 2 in extension
remove the lh body controller module from the vehicle .
install the bolts that attach the front body controller module to the body . 10 nm 10 nm
connect the driver seat electrical connector onto the rh body controller module . note make sure that the driver seat electrical connector lock is fully engaged .
remove screws securing rh speaker to ip and remove speaker note 3x screws , t20 , 2.3 nm , 1x connector
disconnect the j10 instrument panel electrical connector from the rh body controller module .
repeat steps 6 through 12 on the lh side of the vehicle .
connect the thermal beam electrical harness to the powertrain pump to sill hose coolant temperature sensor connector .
release tabs securing rear diffuser to rear fascia and remove from vehicle note 10x tabs , start from one side and work your way across while releasing tabs
release the locking tab , and then disconnect the electrical connector from the low pressure and temperature sensor . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector . figure 10 . some components hidden for clarity
connect the trunk electrical harness to the rh and lh trunk light connectors . figure 6 . rh figure 7 . lh
release the lock , and then disconnect the body 2 electrical connector from the rh body controller module .
install the clip that attaches the shroud drain hose to the tab on the lh body controller module .
if the lh body controller module has a shroud installed , release the clips that attach the shroud to the module . note a shroud should be installed on the new body controller module even if one was not present during removal .
install new nuts and new bolt to attach the power and ground cables to the front body controller module . 8.5 nm 8.5 nm note make sure that the terminal lugs fit in their channels neatly .
connect the rh front door electrical connector onto the rh body controller module . note make sure that the rh front door electrical connector lock is fully engaged .
disconnect connectors for passenger air bag assembly note 3x connectors , 2x connectors for regions other than north america , connector release may vary
disconnect the j11 hvac electrical connector from the rh body controller module .
perform the forward facing camera target calibration procedure . see camera forward facing
connect the thermal beam electrical harness to the superbottle level sensor connector .
remove lh rear wheel speed sensor harness connector clip from subframe note 1x clip
release the low pressure and temperature sensor harness from the harness mounts on the top and rear of the supermanifold . tip : release the harness with a flat head screwdriver . wrap the tip with electrical tape to avoid damaging the harness . figure 11 . harness mount at top of supermanifold figure 12 . harness mount at rear of supermanifold
install the trunk trim panel . see trim lid trunk .
release the lock , and then disconnect the body 1 electrical connector from the rh body controller module . caution to avoid damage , carefully remove the body 1 electrical connector because the lock may get hung up on the ip carrier .
install the lh front door harness clip to the lh body controller module .
connect the electrical harness to the front body controller module connectors .
connect the rh front door wiring connectors onto the rh body controller module .
remove bolts securing passenger air bag assembly to cross car beam note 4x patch bolts , t30 , 8 nm , newer vehicles have 4x e10 patch bolts , discard after removal
release the clip that attaches the dcdc cable to the rh body controller module .
fasten the clip that attaches the thermal beam electrical harness to the suction/liquid lines .
disconnect lh rear wheel speed harness note 1x connector , release locking tab , use mechanical hands to hold the connector end on subframe harness side
loosen , but do not remove , the inner bolts that attach the lh side of the shock tower brace to the vehicle . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
move the trunk electrical wiring harness in through the bulkhead .
release the lock , and then disconnect the body 3 electrical connector from the rh body controller module .
move the lh body harness towards the left side of the lh body controller module , and then attach the harness clips to the lh body controller module .
visually inspect that the power and the ground cables exit the front body controller module neatly in their respective channels , and parallel to each other . caution make sure that no cables or wires will be pinched when the front body controller module cover is installed .
install the nuts that attach the rh carpet locator bracket onto the vehicle . 2.5 nm
remove screws securing ip carrier to cross car beam near passenger air bag note 2x screws , t20 , 2.3 nm
remove the bolt that attaches the rh body controller module to the vehicle . note use of the following tool is recommended :
fasten the clip that attaches the thermal beam electrical harness to the superbottle .
remove rh rear wheel speed sensor harness connector clip from subframe note 1x clip
loosen , but do not remove , the outer bolt that attaches the lh side of the shock tower brace to the vehicle . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
install a new bolt to attach the ground strap to the body . 8 nm
connect the headliner electrical connector .
install the front body controller module cover to the front body controller module , and then install the bolts that attach the cover to the module . 6 nm
fold the rh front carpet back to its original position .
remove screws securing ip carrier to cross car beam on lower lh side note 2x screws , t20 , 2.3 nm
release the molded rh body controller module clip , and then slide the module downward to release the tab .
install the thermal beam electrical harness to the chiller and exv assembly hose , and then fasten the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the hose .
disconnect rh rear wheel speed sensor connector note 1x connector
remove the inner bolts that attach the rh side of the shock tower brace to the vehicle . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
connect the trunk electrical harness connectors .
connect the thermal harness to the front body controller module connector .
remove screw securing ip carrier to cross car beam on upper lh side note 1x screw , t20 , 2.3 nm
maneuver the rh body controller module from under the ip , and then remove it from the vehicle .
disconnect harness from ride height level sensor note 1x connector , press the locking tab on the right side of the connector and pull down to release
remove the outer bolt that attaches the rh side of the shock tower brace to the vehicle . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
remove the inflatable airbags from the package tray , and then install the clips that attach the package tray trim to the body .
fasten the clip that attaches the suction/liquid lines to the body near the txv .
install the rh middle apillar trim . see trim apillar middle lh .
remove screws securing ip carrier to cross car beam at lower center note 2x screws , t20 , 2.3 nm
maneuver the rh body controller module between the harness guide and body of the vehicle into position under the ip carrier , and then set the tab into the biw cutout .
connect the thermal beam electrical harness to the powertrain coolant pump connector .
remove the harness clip to the ride height level sensor note 1x clip
slide the rh side of the shock tower brace toward the front of the vehicle .
move the rh rear cpillar trim into position , and then install the clip and tabs that attach the rear cpillar trim to the vehicle . note slide the rear tabs into the package tray first .
install the thermal harness cover to the front body controller module , and then install the bolt that attaches the cover to the module . 6 nm
install the rh footwell duct . see duct footwell rh .
remove screws securing ip carrier to cross car beam at upper center note 2x screws , t20 , 2.3 nm
clip the rh body controller module to the vehicle .
connect the thermal beam electrical harness to the hv battery coolant pump connector .
disconnect rh side 12v subframe harness connector note 1x connector , release locking tab
route the thermal subassembly harness toward the lh side of the vehicle , under the a/c compressor and between the coolant bottle and a/c compressor bracket .
install the rh upper cpillar trim . see trim cpillar upper lh .
connect the front wiring connector to the lh body controller module .
install the 12v battery bracket . see bracket 12v battery .
remove screw securing ip carrier to cross car beam on upper rh side note 1x screw , t20 , 2.3 nm
install the bolt that secures the rh body controller module to the vehicle . tip : use of the following tool is recommended :
connect the thermal beam electrical harness to the 5way valve actuator connector .
remove rh side 12v subframe harness clip from body note 1x barrel clip
remove the thermal subassembly harness from the vehicle by routing the harness out from between the coolant bottle and the supermanifoldtohvac a/c lines .
install new nut that attaches the 12v power cable to the lh body controller module . 8.5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm 12point deep socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 4 in extension
remove ip carrier from cross car beam note recommend assistance . be cautious to clear the harness clipped at top center of hvac assembly , this will also ease removal , remove ip carrier through passenger front door
install the clip that attaches the dcdc cable to the rh body controller module .
connect the thermal beam electrical harness to the coolant temperature sensor connector .
disconnect lh side 12v subframe harness connector note 1x connector
position the thermal subassembly harness for installation near the front controller . note position the harness clips near the supermanifold to hvac a/c line and coolant bottle , as illustrated .
install the rh 2nd row seat side bolster , and then unfold the rh 2nd row seatback . see bolster side seat 2nd row lh .
connect the inline electrical connector x909 to the lh body harness , and then clip it to the lh body controller module .
install the 12v battery strap . see strap 12v battery .
in toolbox , click actions , type `` proc_vcright '' in the search field , click the play button next to `` proc_vcright_xpostreplacementprocedure '' , and then select run . note perform this step with the doors closed . the windows and seats will move during this process .
remove screws securing driver air wave duct to cross car beam note 2x scews , t20 , 2.3 nm
connect the j11 hvac electrical connector to the rh body controller module .
connect the thermal beam electrical harness to the chiller and exv assembly connector .
remove lh side 12v subframe harness clip from body note 1x barrel clip
route the remaining portion of the harness between the coolant bottle and a/c compressor bracket , under the a/c compressor , and then onto the supermanifold .
connect the hvac electrical connector to the lh body controller module , and then engage the connector lock . note ensure the electrical connector is fully seated .
disconnect lh upper duct thermistor from drivers air wave duct note 1x connector
connect the j10 instrument panel electrical connector to the rh body controller module .
connect the thermal beam electrical harness to the low pressure transducer connector .
release clips securing subframe harness to bottom rear of subframe note 2x clips
connect the electrical connector on the evap exv . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push down or pull up on the red locking tab . figure 13 . some components hidden for clarity
install the instrument panel electrical connector to the lh body controller module , and then engage the connector lock . note ensure the electrical connector is fully seated .
remove driver air wave duct from hvac assembly
connect the j9 passenger front seat electrical connector to the rh body controller module , and then engage the connector lock .. note ensure the electrical connector is fully seated .
fasten the clips that attach the thermal beam electrical harness to the compressor and compressor bracket .
disconnect oil pump connector note 1x connector
connect the electrical connector on the chiller exv . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push down or pull up on the red locking tab . figure 14 . some components hidden for clarity
connect the driver seat electrical connector to the lh body controller module , and then engage the connector lock . note ensure the electrical connector is fully seated .
in toolbox , click actions , type `` vcfront '' in the search field , click the play button next to `` testreset_ vcfront '' , and then select run .
remove headliner harness clips on lh lower apillar note 2x clips
connect the j7 rh front door electrical connector to the rh body controller module , and then engage the connector lock . note ensure the electrical connector is fully seated .
connect the thermal beam electrical harness to the high pressure transducer connector .
disconnect resolver connector from drive unit note 1x connector , 2x clips , release locking tab
connect the electrical connector on the left side cabin condenser exv . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push down or pull up on the red locking tab . figure 15 . some components hidden for clarity
connect the lh front door electrical connector to the lh body controller module , and then engage the connector lock . note ensure the electrical connector is fully seated .
disconnect the headliner harness connector from lh lower apillar note 1x connector
install the clip that attaches the black connector to the rh body controller module .
connect the thermal beam electrical harness to the compressor connector .
disconnect rdu 12v connector note 1x connector , release locking tab then push the handle downward to release connector
connect the clips that attach the lh front door electrical connectors to the lh body controller module .
disconnect the dash connector from the left body controller note 1x connector , release locking tab and gently pull down to release connector
connect the j1 power electrical connector to the rh body controller module , and then engage the connector lock . note ensure the electrical connector is fully seated .
install the bolt that attaches the thermal beam electrical harness ground terminal to the compressor . 6 nm
remove rdu 12v harness clip note 1x clip
connect the electrical harness clip onto the ip carrier .
shift the lh side of the shock tower brace rearward so that the bolt holes in the brace and shock tower align .
disconnect the hvac connector from the left body controller note 1x connector
connect the j4 body electrical connector to the rh body controller module , and then engage the connector lock . note ensure the electrical connector is fully seated .
loosen the clip that secures the inverter and coolant hose to the rdu note 3x clips
install the lh air wave duct . see duct air wave lh .
install the outer bolt that attaches the shock tower brace to the lh shock tower . 62 nm
disconnect ip harness connector from electronic steering column note 1x connector
connect the j5 body electrical connector to the rh body controller module , and then engage the connector lock . note ensure the electrical connector is fully seated .
connect the thermal beam electrical harness to the front body controller module connector .
release clips securing subframe harness to top of rear subframe note 4x clips
install the clip that attaches the rh body harness at the lower apillar area .
install the glove box . see glove box without knee airbags . note for rhd vehicles , remove the passenger footwell cover . see cover footwell passenger .
install the inner bolts that attach the shock tower brace to the lh shock tower . 67 nm 67 nm
release the ip harness clip located on the blower motor assembly note 1x harness clip
connect the j12 body electrical connector to the rh body controller module .
install the thermal beam electrical harness cover to the front body controller module , and then install the bolt that attaches the cover to the module . 6 nm
release clips securing subframe harness to left and right of subframe note 2x clips , there is enough space to use the clip prytool to release the clips
connect the wiring harnesses at the rh lower apillar clip .
install the lh footwell duct . see duct footwell lh .
tighten the outer bolt that attaches the shock tower brace to the rh shock tower . 62 nm
disconnect blower motor connector note 1x connector
connect the j6 underhood storage unit connector to the rh body controller module .
install the hvac plenum outer duct to the hvac plenum inner duct , and then fasten the clips that attach the outer duct to the inner duct .
remove the harness from the subframe note take out the harness from the gap between the rdu and the subframe , and take out the harness from left to right
tighten the inner bolts that attach the shock tower brace to the rh shock tower . 67 nm 67 nm
release clip securing center speaker harness to hvac assembly note 1x clip
connect the j2 body electrical connector to the rh body controller module , and then engage the connector lock . note ensure the electrical connector is fully seated .
install the harness to the subframe note pass the new harness through the gap between the subframe and rdu from right to left , and fix the harness on the subframe , taking care not to damage the harness
fasten the clip that attaches the 12v battery vent hose to the 12v battery bracket .
disconnect connector from restraint control module note 1x connector , disengage locking tab to release lever
secure the clips that attach the body electrical harness to the instrument panel .
install rear subframe harness into position and secure clips along left and right of subframe note 2x clips
install the clip that attaches the harness to the a/c compressor hv harness bracket .
connect to vehicle using toolbox 3.0 . note vehicle connection is integrated into lh footwell cover .
perform the headlights adjust procedure . see : headlights adjust na headlights adjust na headlights adjust emea headlights adjust emea
fasten the clip that attaches the coolant hose to the 12v battery bracket .
remove the ip harness clips from body note 4x clips
install the clips that attach rh body electrical harness to the rh body controller module area .
install clips securing subframe harness to top of rear subframe note 4x clips
connect the low voltage electrical connector on the a/c compressor . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push down or pull up on the red locking tab .
install the upper bolts that attach the battery bracket to the vehicle . 15 nm
release the ip harness clip next to the rh duct thermistor note 1x harness clip
connect the blue coaxial connector to the body harness guide side .
secure the coolant hose to the rdu note 3x clips
install the nuts that attach the superbottle to the thermal beam . 8 nm
release the ip harness clip next to the rh upper mode actuator note 1x harness clip
connect the purple coaxial connector to the body harness guide side .
disconnect the electrical harness from the lumbar pump connector .
connect lh rear wheel speed sensor note 1x connector
install new nuts that attach the positive cables onto the rh body controller module .
install the lh middle apillar trim . see trim apillar middle lh .
release hvac harness from ip harness holding mount on rh side of ip harness . note 3x harness holding mounts
unfold the carpet to its original position , and then install the clip that attaches the carpet to the vehicle .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the seatback frame , and then separate the electrical harness from the seatback frame .
disconnect ip harness connectors from car computer note 2x connectors , non eu vehicles have 3x connectors
install the glovebox . see glove box with knee airbags .
disconnect dash harness connector from right body controller note 1x connector
disconnect the electrical harness from the pretensioner connector .
release clip from rh side of cross car beam note 1x harness clip
release the clips that attach the electrical harness along the seat cushion frame . note older harnesses are clipped directly to the seat frame , while newer harnesses are attached to a harness guide that is clipped to the seat rail . see images . figure 1 . harness clipped to seat frame figure 2 . harness guide clipped to seat rail
release the clips that attach the inboard side shield to the seat cushion frame , and then pull up on the shield to remove it from the frame .
install the underhood rear apron . see underhood apron rear .
disconnect the electrical harness from the seatbelt buckle connector .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the seat cushion frame near the seatbelt buckle connector .
connect to vehicle using toolbox 3 . note vehicle connection is integrated into lh footwell cover .
position the seat for access to the underside of the cushion .
click the play icon next to `` service redeploy '' , and then click run .
release the clip that attaches the electrical harness near the seat tilt motor .
disconnect the electrical harness from the seat tilt motor connector .
disconnect the electrical harness from the seat heater connectors .
install the rh mid apillar trim . see trim apillar middle lh .
release the clip that attaches the electrical harness adjacent to the heater connectors .
disconnect the electrical harness from the seat occupied sensor connector .
remove the clip that attaches the seat occupied sensor connector to the seat frame .
release the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the seat cushion frame near the seat occupied sensor connector .
disconnect the electrical harness from the seat height motor connector .
release the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the seat cushion frame near the seat height motor .
disconnect the electrical harness from the seat track motor connector .
release the clip that attaches the electrical harness near the seat track motor housing .
disconnect the electrical harness from the seat track position sensor connector .
route the seat buckle leg of the electrical harness between the seat height motor and seat cushion , and then out the bottom of the seat .
route the pretensioner leg of the electrical harness between the seat tilt motor and seat cushion , and then remove the entire electrical harness out the bottom of the seat .
route the pretensioner leg of the electrical harness in from the bottom of the seat , between the seat tilt motor and seat cushion , and then out at the front of the seat .
route the seat buckle leg of the electrical harness in from the bottom of the seat , between the seat height motor and seat cushion , and then out at the front of the seat .
connect the electrical harness to the seat track position sensor connector .
fasten the clip that attaches the electrical harness near the seat track motor housing .
connect the electrical harness to the seat track motor connector .
fasten the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the seat cushion frame near the seat height motor .
connect the electrical harness to the seat height motor connector .
fasten the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the seat cushion frame near the seat occupied sensor connector .
install the clip that attaches the seat occupied sensor connector leg of the electrical harness to the seat frame .
connect the electrical harness to the seat occupied sensor connector .
fasten the clip that attaches the electrical harness adjacent to the heater connectors .
connect the electrical harness to the seat heater connectors .
connect the electrical harness to the seat tilt motor connector .
fasten the clip that attaches the electrical harness near the seat tilt motor .
position the seat for access to the sides and seatback .
fasten the clips that attach the seat buckle leg of the electrical harness to the seat cushion frame near the seatbelt buckle connector .
connect the electrical harness to the seatbelt buckle connector .
install the inboard side shield to the seat cushion frame , and then fasten the clips that attach the shield to the frame .
fasten the clips that attach the pretensioner leg of the electrical harness along the seat cushion frame . note older harnesses are clipped directly to the seat frame , while newer harnesses are attached to a harness guide that is clipped to the seat rail . see images . figure 3 . harness clipped to seat frame figure 4 . harness guide clipped to seat rail
connect the electrical harness to the pretensioner connector .
open all doors , and latch the rear doors to prevent accidental closing .
open the front lh and front rh doors .
disconnect the electrical harness from the lh headliner tweeter connector .
d isconnect the rear fascia harness connectors .
if present , disconnect the electrical harness from the rh and lh front turn signal/fog light connectors . figure 1 . rh shown , lh similar
open the lh rear door .
open all doors and lower the windows . note latch the rear doors to prevent accidental closure .
place wheel chocks on both rear wheels .
put chocks at one of the rear wheels to prevent the vehicle from rolling .
disconnect the electrical harness from the front overhead console connector .
remove the clips that attach the rear fascia harness to the upper rear fascia , and then remove the harness from the assembly .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the front fascia and rh and lh front turn signal/fog lights . figure 2 . rh shown , lh similar
place 2 pieces of masking tape vertically over the rear lh door glass and outer belt .
put vehicle in neutral .
disconnect the electrical harness from the rh headliner tweeter connector .
disconnect the electrical harness from the front parking distance sensors .
remove the lh rear door trim panel . see panel door trim rear lh .
release the lh and rh parking brakes using toolbox 3 . see parking brake caliper rear lh .
in toolbox : select actions/autodiag . type `` epb '' in the search field . click the play button next to `` proc_epbl_startservicemode , '' and then click run . click the play button next to `` proc_epbr_startservicemode , '' and then click run .
disconnect the electrical harness from the rear overhead console connector .
fullly raise the vehicle .
remove the lh rear door inner belt seal from the rear door . see seal inner belt rear door lh .
separate the glue attaching points that attach the headliner harness to the headliner .
carefully cut the cable tie that attaches the front fascia harness to the tow hook cover .
remove the rear lh door glass . see glass door lh rear .
remove the lh front door trim panel . see panel door trim front lh .
release the clips that attach the headliner harness to the headliner , and then remove the harness from the headliner .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the center of front fascia , and then remove the electrical harness from the fascia .
release the grey locking tab , and then press on the tab to disconnect the front drive unit logic connector near the lh side of the front subframe .
remove the lh rear window motor regulator assembly . see window motor / regulator assembly rear lh .
remove the lh and rh trunk stops .
remove the lh front door speaker . see speaker front door lh .
release the clips that attach the footrest .
remove the lh footwell vent duct . see duct footwell lh .
install the 12v battery rear hook tie down to the body , and then install the bolt that attaches the tie down to the body . 9 nm
use a glue gun to attach the headliner harness to the headliner . allow time for the glue to set .
position the new front fascia harness in the front fascia .
disconnect the electrical connector from the lh rear door latch .
remove the trunk load floor . see trim floor trunk .
remove the lh front door closeout panel . see closeout panel door front lh .
remove the front passenger knee airbag . see airbag knee front passenger
open all 4 doors and lower all 4 windows .
install harness connector clip to subframe note 1x clip
install the clip that attaches the thermal subassembly harness to the rh side of the coolant bottle .
install the clips that attach the front fascia harness to the rh and lh front turn signal/fog lights . figure 3 . rh shown , lh similar
disconnect the electrical connector from the lh rear door exterior release handle .
remove the trunk carpet . see carpet rear trunk .
release the locking tab , and then disconnect the harness from the lh front door exterior release handle . figure 1 . interior door skin hidden for clarity
remove the lh and rh front seats . see seat driver .
remove the main instrument panel decor . see decor trim instrument panel main .
remove the rh center console side panel carpet .
connect rh rear wheel speed sensor connector note 1x connector
install the clip that attaches the thermal subassembly harness to the front harness guide cover .
connect 12v power . see 12v/lv power . caution do not power on the climate control system until this procedure has been fully completed .
install the clips that attach the electrical harness to the center of front fascia .
release the clips that attach the lh rear door harness to the lh rear door .
disconnect the electrical harness from the door latch connector .
remove the center console . see center console .
move the lh and rh front seats fully backward .
remove the clips that attach the rh front carpet to the vehicle , and then fold the carpet aside for access .
connect the thermal subassembly harness to the front controller , and then engage the locking tab .
if present , connect the electrical harness from the rh and lh front turn signal/fog light connectors . figure 4 . rh shown , lh similar
release the grommet , and then push the lh rear door harness through the inner door harness port .
remove the rh side rear trunk trim . see trim side trunk rh .
release the clips that attach the lh front door harness to the lh front door .
remove the main instrument panel décor trim . see decor trim instrument panel main .
remove the lh and rh instrument panel end caps . see end cap instrument panel lh
plug in the connector to the ride height level sensor note 1x connector , 1x locking tab
install the low pressure and temperature sensor harness on the harness mounts on the top and rear of the supermanifold . tip : install the harness with a flat head screwdriver . wrap the tip with electrical tape to avoid damaging the harness . figure 16 . harness mount at top of supermanifold figure 17 . harness mount at rear of supermanifold
disconnect ip harness connectors from rh controller area note 3x connectors
connect the electrical harness to the front parking distance sensors .
release the clips that attach the front drive unit harness to the front subframe . figure 1 . other assemblies hidden for clarity
release the tabs that attach lh rear door harness seal to the bpillar .
remove the lh and rh tail light assemblies . see taillight lh .
install the harness clip to the ride height level sensor note 1x harness clip
connect the electrical connector on the low pressure and temperature sensor , and then engage the locking tab , caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push down or pull up on the red locking tab . figure 18 . some components hidden for clarity
remove lh center display bracket note 2x bolts , t30 , 12 nm
connect the electrical harness to the ambient air temperature sensor connector .
release the clips that attach the front drive unit harness to the inverter .
disconnect the lh rear door harness connector from the lh body harness .
remove the clips that attach the lh air wave duct .
install rdu 12v harness clip note 1x clip
torque the bolts that attach the supermanifold to the shock tower brace . 31 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
connect the front passenger seat electrical connector onto the rh body controller module . note make sure that the front passenger seat electrical connector lock is fully engaged .
remove rh center display bracket note 2x bolts , t30 , 12 nm
insert a cable tie on the back side of the tow hook cover , and then attach the front fascia harness electrical contact to the cable tie . note after locking the cable tie , cut off the excess cable .
release the lh rear door harness seal from the front of the lh rear door .
release the female side of the rear fascia connector from the bracket .
install rdu 12v connector note 1x connector , engage locking handle
connect the electrical connector on the octovalve . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push down or pull up on the red locking tab .
remove bleeder duct adapter from hvac assembly note 4x clips
push the lh rear door harness through the front inner door harness port , and then remove the harness from the vehicle .
release the body harness clip of the rh body harness at the rear fascia area .
d isconnect the lh front door harness connector s from the lh body controller module .
remove the nut that attaches the 12v battery rear hook tie down .
connect resolver connector to drive unit note 1x connector , 2x clips , engage locking tab
connect the electrical connector on the battery coolant pump . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push down or pull up on the red locking tab .
remove nuts securing steering column to cross car beam and carefully lower steering column note 4x nuts , 13mm , 15 nm
release the clip that attaches the lh front door harness to the lh body controller module .
release the clips that attach the instrument panel service panel to the instrument panel , and then disconnect temperature sensor connector .
remove the wiper motor assembly . see wiper module .
remove front passenger footwell cover . see cover footwell passenger .
remove the lh center console side panel carpet .
connect the oil pump connector note 1x connector , engage locking tab
connect the electrical connector on the powertrain coolant pump . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push down or pull up on the red locking tab .
remove bolts securing cross car beam to lh side of bulkhead note 2x bolts , 13mm , 25 nm
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the rear fascia area .
release the grommet , and then push the door wiring harness through the apillar bulkhead . figure 2 . release the grommet from the door frame figure 3 . push the connectors through the bulkhead
remove the touchscreen and the center display housing . see touchscreen .
remove the driver seat and front passenger seat . see seat driver .
install clips securing subframe harness to bottom rear of subframe note 2x clips
connect the electrical connector on the sensor on the powertrain supply hose , near the coolant bottle . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push down or pull up on the red locking tab . note match the color of the tape wrapped around the harness with the color of the sheathe near the coolant hose coupling .
remove bolt securing lh cross car beam bracket to cross beam note 1x bolt , 13mm , 25 nm
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the rear subframe area .
push the wiring harness connector s through the lh front door bulkhead , and then remove the harness from the door .
remove the vent finisher . see finisher vent .
raise the vehicle . see raise vehicle 2 post lift .
release the harness clips from the car computer mounting clips , and then release the harness from the car computer .
install lh side 12v subframe harness clip to body note 1x barrel clip
connect the electrical connector on the sensor on the chiller to battery hose , near the coolant bottle . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push down or pull up on the red locking tab . note match the color of the tape wrapped around the harness with the color of the sheathe near the coolant hose coupling .
install the clips that attach the rh front carpet to the footwell area .
remove the nut securing the lh cross car beam bracket to body note 1x nut , 13mm , 25 nm
disconnect the electrical harness from the rear subframe harness connector and the rh electric parking brake connector .
remove the screw that attaches the rh air duct to the instrument panel , and then release the air duct from the instrument panel .
place the vehicle into park .
connect lh side 12v subframe harness connector note 1x connector
remove lh cross car beam bracket from vehicle
push the rear portion of the rh body harness through the rh side trunk bulkhead .
disconnect the harness connector from the rh air duct and remove the duct .
remove the 12v/lv battery . see 12v/lv battery .
install rh side 12v subframe harness clip to body note 1x barrel clip
connect the electrical connector on the coolant bottle level sensor , and then engage the locking tab . caution push the red locking tab into the connector to engage the locking mechanism . do not push down or pull up on the red locking tab .
install the rh front floor mat .
remove clips securing lh front main carpet to vehicle note 3x clips , number of clips on new vehicles may vary
lower the vehicle and move it away from the lift .
remove the screw that attaches the lh air duct to the instrument panel , and then release the air duct from the instrument panel .
remove the wiper module . see wiper module .
connect rh side 12v subframe harness connector note 1x connector
slide the rh side of the shock tower brace into position for installation .
remove bolt securing rh cross car beam bracket to cross beam note 1x bolts , 13mm , 25 nm
place wheel chocks at one of the rear wheels to prevent the vehicle from rolling .
disconnect the harness connector from the lh air duct and remove the duct .
remove the bolts that attach the front body controller module cover to the front body controller module , and then remove the cover .
install rear diffuser to vehicle then engage tabs securing it to fascia note 10x tabs
install the outer bolt that attaches the rh side of the shock tower brace to the vehicle . 62 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
remove nut securing rh cross car beam bracket to body note 1x nut , 13mm , 25 nm
remove the speaker grille . see grille speaker instrument panel .
disconnect the main front harness from the front body controller module connectors .
remove the hvac plenum inner duct . duct hvac plenum inner .
install the bolts securing the rear diffuser to inner rear fascia note 2x bolts , 10mm , 3 nm
install the inner bolts that attach the rh side of the shock tower brace to the vehicle . 67 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
remove the rh cross car beam bracket from vehicle
remove the electromechanical brake booster . see booster brake electromechanical .
install outer bolts securing rear diffuser to rear fascia assembly note 4x bolts , 10mm , 3 nm
torque the outer bolt that attaches the lh side of the shock tower brace to the vehicle . 62 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
remove clip securing rh front main carpet to cross car beam note 1 clip
remove the bolts that attach the front body controller module to the body .
partially lower the vehicle .
remove the pedal asembly from the vehicle . see brake pedal .
apply loctite 222 onto rear diffuser bolts and install bolts securing rear diffuser to body note 6x bolts , 10mm , 4 nm , 2x fastener covers , number of bolts may vary on newer vehicles
torque the inner bolts that attach the lh side of the shock tower brace to the vehicle . 67 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
remove bolts securing the cross car beam to hvac assembly note 4x bolts , 10mm , 5.5 nm
move the rh front passenger seat to its original position .
release the clips that attach the bottom of the front body controller module to the body , and then remove the lower busbar from the stud .
remove and discard the nut that attaches the positive battery cable to the rh body controller .
apply loctite 222 onto mid aero shield bolts and install mid aero shield note 13x bolts , 10mm , 5 nm
remove bolt securing the cross car beam to hvac assembly note 1x bolt , 10mm , 5.5 nm
remove the rh knee airbag cover .
disconnect the electrical wiring harness from the front passenger airbag connectors .
remove the windshield washer reservoir from the vehicle .
remove and discard the nut that attaches the dcdc positive cables to the rh body controller .
loosen bolt securing cross car beam to upper cowl note 1x bolt , 13mm , 25 nm
remove and discard the bolts that attach the front passenger airbag to the cross car beam . 8 nm
release the lh and rh rear parking brakes , and then reconnect the lh and rh rear brake caliper electrical connectors . see parking brake caliper rear lh .
release the black connector from the rh body controller , and then disconnect the connector .
remove the bolts securing the lh cross car beam to body note 2x bolts , 15mm , 29 nm
remove the main décor trim . see decor trim instrument panel main .
remove the screws that attach the ip carrier to the cross car beam near the front passenger airbag .
remove the bolt that attaches the ground strap to the lower rear of the front body controller module , and then remove the module from the vehicle .
lower the vehicle fully and , with assistance , push the vehicle to the work area . warning do not push the vehicle faster than 1 mph .
disconnect the frunk connector from the rh body controller .
remove the bolts securing the rh cross car beam to body note 2x bolts , 15mm , 29 nm
remove the screws that attach the ip carrier to the cross car beam . 2.3 nm figure 1 . lhd shown , rhd similar
place wheel chocks to keep the vehicle from moving .
push the rh side of the front harness through the opening in the bulkhead .
connect 2nd row seat cushion harness and install 2nd row seat cushion note 2x connectors , 2x clips , insert the seat belt buckles through the holes , slide rear cushion inward then align front guide tabs to locking tabs , make sure cushion is fully seated with push & pull test near clips
remove the cross car beam from vehicle note recommend assistance , use caution not to damage the interior
slightly release the instrument panel carrier from the cross car beam to gain access to the ecall antenna . see ip carrier .
release the clips that attach the hvac plenum outer duct to the hvac plenum inner duct , and then remove the outer duct .
remove the driver knee airbag , if present . see airbag knee driver .
disconnect txv valve harness connector .
lift lh front main carpet towards lh front seat
remove the rh front seat . see seat driver .
disconnect the harness connector from the ecall antenna .
remove the fasteners that attach the hvac plenum inner duct to the body , and then remove the inner duct from the vehicle .
remove the front harness clip at the rh front frame rail area .
disconnect hvac harness connector from right body controller note 1x connector
remove the lh and rh center console side panel carpet .
remove the instrument panel carrier from the cross car beam . caution make sure to clear the harness attached to the top of the hvac assembly .
disconnect the electrical harness from the rh body controller module connector .
remove the lh and rh center console side panel carpets . see side panel center console lh .
release the thermal harness ground from the front harness bundle .
remove the lh and rh side rail trim . see trim side rail lh .
remove the screws that attach the rh air wave duct to the cross car beam and then remove the rh air wave duct fro the hvac assembly .
remove and discard the nuts that attach the power cables of the electrical harness to the rh body controller module , and remove the power cables from the module .
remove the center console lower rear panel . see panel lower rear center console .
remove the front harness clips near the rh headlight area .
remove bolt securing hvac assembly to rh side of bulkhead note 1x bolt , 10mm , 5.5 nm , recommend assistance to support hvac assembly during removal
release the lh and rh upper bpillar trim . see trim bpillar upper lh .
remove the the lh and rh front main carpets .
remove and discard the nut that attaches the rh body controller module to the apillar , and lower the module for access .
remove the bolt that attaches the front harness test junction near the rh front frame rail .
remove main floor duct from hvac assembly and set aside note use a bungee cord as needed to secure floor duct
disconnect the headliner electrical harness .
release the clip that attaches the inline electrical harness connector to the rh body controller module , and then disconnect the electrical connector .
remove the front passenger knee airbag , if present . see airbag knee front passenger .
disconnect the rh headlight connector .
remove hvac assembly from vehicle note recommend assistance , rotate hvac assembly counter clockwise and remove out of rh front door
remove the lh upper cpillar trim . see trim cpillar upper lh .
release the clips that attach the headliner electrical harness and move it aside . lhd shown , rhd similar
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the car computer .
position hvac assembly into vehicle for installation note recommend assistance , install hvac assembly through rh front door , rotate hvac assembly clockwise for installation
disconnect the instrument panel harness connectors from the lh body controller module , and then remove the harness clip from the instrument panel near the lh body controller . note 1x connector j6 , 1x connector j9 , 2x coax connectors . lhd shown , rhd similar
disconnect the electrical harness from the car computer connectors .
install bolt securing hvac assembly to rh side of bulkhead note 1x bolt , 10mm , 5.5 nm
remove the rh rear door sill trim . see trim sill panel rear lh .
remove lift arms from below vehicle
install main floor duct to hvac assembly
remove the rh lower bpillar trim . see trim bpillar lower lh .
remove the sill rear trunk trim . see trim sill trunk .
connect hvac harness connector to right body controller note 1x connector
put the vehicle on a 2post lift but do not raise it at this time .
remove and discard the nut that attaches the front harness ground wire to the 12v battery ground harness , and remove the wire from the harness .
remove the 2nd row lh seat back assembly . see seat back 2nd row lh .
remove and discard the nut that attaches the dcdc ground busbar to the hv battery at the dcdc passthrough .
install lh front main carpet into position for installation
chock one of the wheels , and then release the parking brake using toolbox 3 . see parking brake caliper rear lh .
remove the 2nd row rh seat back assembly . see seat back 2nd row rh .
for model 3 with heat pump : remove the 2nd row lower seat cushion . see seat cushion lower 2nd row .
release the trunk carpet clips from the body studs under the 2nd row seat cushion .
position the cross car beam to vehicle for installation note recommend assistance , use caution not to damage the interior
remove the liftgate stops from the body .
release the clips that attach the trunk carpet to the body , and then remove the trunk carpet from the vehicle .
loosely install bolts securing rh cross car beam to body note 2x bolts , 15mm , 29 nm , torque at later step
remove the load floor . see trim floor trunk
remove the lh side rear trunk trim . see trim side trunk lh .
loosely install bolts securing lh cross car beam to body note 2x bolts , 15mm , 29 nm , torque at later step
remove the floor rear trunk trim . see trim floor trunk .
loosely install bolt securing cross car beam to upper cowl note 1x bolt , 13mm , 25 nm
remove the rear trunk carpet .
remove the rear fascia assembly . see fascia rear .
loosely install bolt securing cross car beam to hvac assembly note 1x bolt , 10mm , 5.5 nm , torque at later step
remove the clips that attach the lh body harness to the body in the rear fascia and rear subframe areas .
loosely install bolts securing cross car beam to hvac assembly note 4x bolts , 10mm , 5.5 nm , torque at later step
remove the subwoofer . see subwoofer .
bring the electrical harness to the seatback , and then fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the seatback frame .
disconnect the electrical harness from the rear bluetooth passive entry antenna connector .
position rh cross car beam bracket to vehicle for installation
connect the electrical harness to the lumbar pump connector .
disconnect the electrical harness from the rear subframe electrical harness connector and the lh electric parking brake connector .
loosely install the nut securing the rh cross car beam bracket to body note 1x nut , 13mm , 25 nm , torque at later step
remove the fasteners that attach the rear fascia to the rear corners of the body .
release the clips that attach the trunk carpet to the body , and then remove the front trunk carpet from the vehicle .
connect the electrical harness to the ecu connector .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body , and then push the rear subframe portion of the electrical harness through the lh side trunk bulkhead . note the lh body harness passes through the trunk near the rear section of the rear lh wheel liner area .
loosely install bolt securing rh cross car beam bracket to cross car beam note 1x bolt , 13mm , 25 nm , torque at later step
remove the upper trunk garnish . see garnish trunk .
connect the electrical harness to the recliner motor connector .
position lh cross car beam bracket to vehicle for installation
remove the lh side trunk trim . see trim side trunk lh .
connect the electrical harness to the side airbag connector .
with an assistant , remove the vehicle from the lift . caution the vehicle is safely pushed for only a very short distance and at a very slow speed .
loosely install the nut securing the lh cross car beam bracket to body note 1x nut , 13mm , 25 nm , torque at later step
remove the rh side trunk trim . see trim side trunk rh .
fasten the clips that attach the outboard side of the seat back cover to the seat back frame .
position wheel chocks .
loosely install bolt securing cross car beam to lh cross car beam bracket note 1x bolt , 13mm , 25 nm , torque at later step
remove the front passenger 's knee air bag . see airbag knee front passenger .
hook the upper flaps to cover the lh and rh lower corners of the seat back frame .
install bolts securing cross car beam to lh side of bulkhead note 2x bolts , 13mm , 25 nm
remove the clips that attach the lh body harness to the body in the rear fascia and rear subframe areas . note number of clips may vary .
hook the lower flaps to cover the lh and rh lower corners of the seat back frame .
torque bolt securing the cross car beam to cowl upper note 1x bolts , 13mm , 25 nm
install the driver 's seat seat back shell . see shell seat back driver .
torque bolt securing the cross car beam to hvac assembly note 1x bolts , 10mm , 5.5 nm
remove the front passenger seat . see seat driver .
install the driver 's seat . see seat driver . tip : if the seat was not removed and only the seat mounting bolts were removed , handinstall new bolts to attach the seat to the body , and then torque the bolts to 33.5 nm .
torque bolts securing the cross car beam to hvac module note 4x bolts , 10mm , 5.5 nm
remove the 2nd row lh seat side bolster . see bolster side seat 2nd row lh .
remove the lh footwell cover . see cover footwell driver .
torque bolts securing the lh cross car beam to body note 2x bolts , 15mm , 29 nm
torque bolts securing the rh cross car beam to body note 2x bolts , 15mm , 29 nm
remove the lh upper bpillar trim . see trim bpillar upper lh .
remove the rh instrument panel end cap . see end cap instrument panel lh
perform the vehicle electrical isolation procedure . see vehicle electrical isolation procedure .
remove the 2nd row rh seat side bolster . see bolster side seat 2nd row lh .
remove the driver and front passenger seats . see seat driver .
remove the rear rh sill panel trim . see trim sill panel rear lh .
remove the center console assembly . see center console .
remove the rh upper bpillar trim . see trim bpillar upper lh .
remove the clip that attaches the rh knee airbag cover to the air duct , and then remove the rh knee airbag cover .
remove the driver 's knee airbag . see airbag knee driver .
remove the rear lh sill panel trim . see trim sill panel rear lh .
disconnect the rh body harness from the package tray electrical harness connector and the tuner connectors .
disconnect the electrical harness from the lh antenna amplifier .
remove the glovebox . see glove box without knee airbags .
remove the lh bpillar applique . see applique bpillar lh .
remove the driver and front passenger seats . see seat driver . note make sure to disconnect 12v power during this step .
remove the bpillar applique . see applique bpillar lh .
release the clips that attach the carpet to the body , and fold the carpet towards the lh side .
remove the rh rear sill trim . see trim sill panel rear lh
disconnect the electrical harness from the rh body controller module connectors .
remove the nut that attaches the electrical harness ground strap to the rh body controller module , and then remove the ground strap from the module .
remove the lh lower bpillar trim . see trim bpillar lower lh .
disconnect the instrument panel harness connector from the electronic steering column .
push the rh side of the electrical harness out through the bulkhead .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the steering column .
disconnect the electrical harness from the lh body controller module connector .
remove the rh bpillar applique . see applique bpillar lh .
disconnect the instrument panel electrical harness connector from the hvac fan motor , and then release the blower motor harness clips from the cross car beam .
remove and discard the nut that attaches the power cable of the electrical harness to the lh body controller module , and remove the power cable from the module .
disconnect the instrument panel harness connector from the ptc heater .
release the clip that attaches the inline electrical harness connector x909 to the lh body controller module , and then disconnect the electrical connector .
disconnect the main front harness connectors from the front body controller module .
remove the rh rear cpillar trim . see trim cpillar rear lh .
release the clip that attaches the instrument panel electrical harness to the ptc heater .
push the lh side of the electrical harness out through the bulkhead .
remove and discard the nuts and bolt that attach the power and ground cables to the front body controller module .
remove the package tray . see trim package tray .
remove the instrument panel harness clips from the top of the cross car beam and release the hvac harness from the instrument panel harness .
remove the bolt that attaches the dcdc ground busbar to the body , and then remove the dcdc ground busbar from the vehicle .
release the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the body in the brake booster area .
remove the rh front main carpet .
release the clips that attaches the instrument panel electrical harness to the rh side of the hvac assembly .
use an ipa wipe to clean the mating surfaces of the dcdc ground busbar and the dcdc passthrough .
disconnect the electrical harness from the connectors in the brake booster area .
set the insulation multimeter to measure the voltage across the 12v/lv auxiliary battery terminals . caution for 12v auxiliary battery : if the voltage across the battery terminals is less than 10 volts or greater than 14 volts , the multimeter is not measuring reliably and must not be used . for lv auxiliary battery : if the voltage across the battery terminals is less than 13 volts or greater than 16 volts , the multimeter is not measuring reliably and must not be used . use only a fully functional insulation multimeter .
remove the bolt that attaches the 12v battery upper tie down bracket to the a/c compressor bracket . 5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket ¼ in std ratchet
remove the lh footwell air duct . see duct footwell lh .
remove the nut that attaches the instrument panel harness ground strap to the ptc heater , and then put the ground strap aside .
install the dcdc ground busbar onto the ground terminal of the dcdc passthrough , and then handtighten a new nut that attaches the dcdc ground busbar to the dcdc passthrough .
disconnect the electrical harness from the brake booster connector .
remove all jewelry and empty your pockets before continuing this procedure .
lift the battery strap up , unhook it from the rear tie down strap , and then remove the strap from the vehicle .
remove the clips that attach the lh air wave duct , and then remove the lh air wave duct .
remove and discard the bolt that attaches the instrument panel electrical harness ground strap to the body near the rcm . figure 2 . lhd shown , rhd similar
install the bolt that attaches the dcdc ground busbar to the body , and mark the bolt with a paint pen after it is torqued . 20 nm
remove the 12v battery vent hose from the lh side of the 12v battery .
put on hv insulating gloves , leather outer gloves , and safety glasses before continuing this procedure .
disconnet the rh body harness connectors from the lh side of the car computer .
disconnect the instrument panel electrical harness connector from the rcm . figure 3 . lhd shown , rhd similar
tighten the nut that attaches the dcdc ground busbar to the dcdc passthrough , and then mark the nut with a paint pen after it is torqued . 15 nm
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the front lh frame rail area .
release the 12v battery vent hose clip from the 12v battery bracket .
remove the hv probe cover . see cover hv probe hv battery .
remove and discard the nut that attaches the battery positive cable to the front body controller module , and then remove the cable .
release the clips that attach the instrument panel electrical harness to the body .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the electrical harness ground terminals to the body in the front lh frame rail area .
release the front harness cover from the front body controller , and then remove the front body controller from the vehicle .
release the clips that attach the 12v battery vent hose to the vehicle , and then remove the vent hose .
use the insulation multimeter to probe the voltages . component test b+ b gnd measured voltage less than 10 v measured voltage 10 v or more hv positive lead negative lead pass fail perform a hv battery contactor seize check . see hv battery contactor seize check . hv battery positive contactor positive lead negative lead pass fail hv battery positive contactor might be seized . see hv battery contactor seize check . hv battery negative contactor positive lead negative lead pass fail hv battery negative contactor might be seized . see hv battery contactor seize check .
loosen the nut that attaches the 12v battery upper tie down bracket to the 12v battery strap . 5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket ¼ in std ratchet
disconnect the rh body harness connector from the rh side of the car computer .
remove and discard the bolt that attaches the battery ground cable to the front body controller module , and then remove the cable .
install the battery positive cable to the front body controller module , and then install a new nut to attach the cable to the module . 8.5 nm
release the instrument panel harness clips on the lh side of the instrument panel .
disconnect the electrical harness from the steering rack connectors and connectors in the front lh frame rail area .
disconnect the harness connector of the windshield heater at the underhood area , release the clip that attaches the harness to the body , and then attach the harness out of the way to avoid damage .
install the hv probe cover . see cover hv probe hv battery .
push down and slide the 12v battery strap to the right to release it from the front hook and rear tie down assembly .
release the rh body harness clips that attach the harness to the bulkhead .
install the battery ground cable to the front body controller module , and then install a new bolt to attach the cable to the module . 8.5 nm
visually inspect that the power cables exit the front body controller module neatly in their respective channels , and parallel to each other . caution make sure that no cables or wires will be pinched when the front body controller module cover is installed .
disconnect the instrument panel electrical harness from the car computer connectors . note vehicles with ecall system have 4 connectors , vehicles without ecall system have 3 connectors .
disconnect the electrical harness from the lh headlight connector .
disconnect the front connectors from the car computer . note vehicles with ecall system have 4 connectors , vehicles without ecall system have 3 connectors .
return to the procedure that required the vehicle to be electrically isolated .
remove the 12v battery strap from the vehicle .
release the clips that attach the coolant hoses and electrical harnesses to the 12v battery bracket beam .
disconnect the brake switch and accelerator pedal connector .
visually inspect that the ground cables exit the front body controller module neatly in their respective channels , and parallel to each other . caution make sure that no cables or wires will be pinched when the front body controller module cover is installed .
release the center speaker harness from the hvac case .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the hvac plenum duct area .
disconnect the lh front harness connector from the car computer .
remove the front body controller module . see module body controller front .
remove the bolts that attach the front controller to the 12v battery bracket beam .
disconnect connectors from the harness clip at the rh body controller module .
disconnect the instrument panel electrical harness from the rh body controller module connectors . figure 4 . lhd shown , rhd models have 2 connectors
disconnect the electrical harness from the txv connector .
with assistance , remove the instrument panel carrier . see ip carrier .
disconnect the rh front harness connectors from the car computer .
release the clips that attach the coolant hoses and electrical harnesses to the 12v battery beam .
remove the bolts that attach the 12v battery bracket beam to the body .
remove the bolt that attaches the electrical harness ground terminal to the body in the txv area
remove and discard the nut that attaches the power cable of the front harness to the lh body controller module , and then remove the power cable from the controller module .
release the clip that attaches the coolant hose to the battery bracket .
remove the bolts that attach the 12v battery beam to the vehicle . 9 nm
remove the 12v battery bracket beam from the vehicle . note maneuver the 12v battery bracket beam to ease removal from the vehicle .
remove and discard the nut that attaches the dcdc positive cables to the rh body controller , and then remove the cables from the rh body controller .
release the quad cam harness clip from the cross car beam .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the front rh frame rail area .
release the clip that attaches the inline electrical harness connector to the lh body controller module , and then disconnect the electrical connector .
remove the 12v battery bracket and 12v battery beam from the vehicle . note carefully slide the beam toward the rh side of the vehicle , and then lift the lh side of the beam to remove the assembly .
install the 12v battery bracket beam on the vehicle . caution keep the 12v battery ground terminal away to avoid catching between the beam and the bracket .
release the hvac harness clips from the instrument panel harness .
remove and discard the bolt that attaches the electrical harness ground terminal to the body in the front rh frame rail area .
release the clips that attach the rh front carpet to the vehicle , and then remove the carpet .
disconnect the frunk harness connector from the lh body controller .
remove the upper bolts that attach the battery bracket to the shock tower brace , and the lower bolts that attach the battery bracket to the battery beam . note reach through under the superbottle to gain access to the underside of the battery beam and the lower bolts .
remove the bolts that attach the 12v battery beam to the 12v battery bracket , and then set the beam aside . 9 nm
install the bolts that attach the 12v battery bracket beam to the body . 9 nm
remove the bolts that attach the 12v battery beam to the 12v battery bracket , and then set the bracket aside . 9 nm
remove the fasteners that attach the rh cross car beam bracket , and then remove the bracket from the vehicle . 25 nm 25 nm
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the rh headlight area .
push the lh side of the front harness through the opening in the bulkhead .
install the bolts that attach the front controller to the 12v battery bracket beam . 10 nm
remove the instrument panel harness from center console area and move it aside .
disconnect the electrical harness from the rh headlight connector .
remove the instrument panel harness from the cross car beam .
install the clips that attach the coolant hoses and electrical harnesses to the 12v battery bracket beam .
disconnect the three inline electrical connectors at the rh lower apillar area , and then remove the harness clip from the lower apillar .
install the front harness ground wire to the 12v battery ground harness , and install a new nut to attach the ground wire to the ground harness . 6 nm
remove the instrument panel harness from the cross car beam . note remember the instrument panel harness routing for installation
partially close all doors .
release the clips that attach the front harness to the front frame rail area and the frunk reinforcement .
remove and discard the bolt that attaches the electrical harness ground strap to the body in the rh footwell area . figure 1 . lhd shown , rhd similar
remove the rh body harness clips from the rh body controller module and rh front door sill , and then move the rh body harness away from the rh body controller module .
with an assistant , move the vehicle to a lift . caution the vehicle is safely pushed for only a very short distance and at a very slow speed .
disconnect the logic connectors and the steering gear assembly connectors .
shift the lh side of the shock tower brace forward to increase working space , and then remove the battery bracket from the vehicle .
disconnect the harness connectors around rh lower bpillar area .
remove the front lh and front rh wheels . see wheel .
remove and discard the nut that attaches the 12v battery tie down bracket to the battery bracket , and then remove the tie down bracket from the battery bracket .
release the rh body harness clips along the rh sill area .
remove the front lh and front rh arch liners . see wheel arch liner front lh .
disconnect the lh headlight connector .
torque the nut securing the rh cross car beam bracket to body note 1x nut , 13mm , 25 nm
remove and discard the nut that attaches the front hook to the battery bracket , and then remove the front hook from the battery bracket .
disconnect the rh body harness connectors around the lower bpillar area . note 4x connectors : rh rear door harness , acceleration sensor , and rh seat belt .
torque bolt securing rh cross car beam bracket to cross car beam note 1x bolt , 13mm , 25 nm
install the front hook onto the battery bracket , and then install a new nut to attach the front hook to the battery bracket . 9 nm
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the apillar and bpillar areas .
disconnect the electrical harness from the connectors in the front rh fascia area .
install clip securing rh front main carpet to cross car beam note 1x clip
install the tie down bracket onto the battery bracket , and then install a new nut to attach the tie down bracket to the battery bracket . 9 nm
disconnect the electrical harness from the bpillar antenna connector .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body at the front of the front rh wheel liner area .
torque the nut securing the lh cross car beam bracket to vehicle note 1x nut , 13mm , 25 nm
install the battery bracket to the shock tower brace and battery beam , and then shift the lh side of the shock tower brace rearward so that the bolt holes in the brace and shock tower align ..
remove and discard the bolt that attaches the electrical harness ground strap to the body in the lower bpillar area .
disconnect the electrical harness from the connector at the front of the front rh wheel liner area .
torque bolt securing lh cross car beam bracket to cross car beam note 1x bolt , 13mm , 25 nm
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the cpillar lower area .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body at the rear of the front rh wheel liner area .
install clips securing lh front main cabin carpet to vehicle note 3x push clips , number of clips on newer vehicles may vary
release the cover on the positive 12v output cable at the dcdc passthrough .
disconnect the electrical harness from the front rh side repeater lamp connector .
position the steering column for installation
remove and discard the nut that attaches the positive 12v output cable to the dcdc passthrough , and then remove the cable from the passthrough . note inspect the condition of the rubber boot at the end of the output cable , and replace the boot if it is melted or damaged .
for model 3 with active hood : disconnect pyrotechnic actuator connector .
disconnect the front fascia harness connector , and then remove the front harness clip from the rh front fascia mounting bracket .
install the nuts securing the steering column to cross car beam note 4x nuts , 13mm , 15 nm
remove the 2nd row lower seat cushion . see seat cushion lower 2nd row . note this step is not necessary for model 3 vehicles with the heat pump system .
disconnect any charging cable .
remove the hv battery probe cover . see cover hv probe hv battery .
disconnect the rh body harness connectors around lower cpillar area
power on the hioki resistance meter , and allow a few minutes for it to thermally stabilize .
remove the penthouse cover . see cover penthouse . warning hv insulating gloves and leather glove protectors must be worn throughout the remainder of this procedure . do not remove gloves or protectors until otherwise noted .
disconnect the electrical harness from the connectors in the front lh fascia area .
disconnect the electrical harness from the front end module connector .
install bleeder duct adapter to hvac note 4x clips
install the upper bolts that attach the battery bracket to the shock tower brace , and the lower bolts that attach the battery bracket to the battery beam . 15 nm 9 nm note reach through under the superbottle to gain access to the underside of the battery beam and the lower bolts .
remove the penthouse probe lid cover gasket .
disconnect the electrical harness from the rh side curtain airbag connector , the rh rear seat belt buckle connector , and the audio tuner connector .
plug the alligator clip leads into the resistance meter . note both the positive and negative lead connectors have arrows or marks that align to arrows on the resistance meter .
if the logic connector cap is installed on the high voltage controller connector , remove it .
disconnect the front harness connector from the rh acceleration sensor .
install the rh center display bracket note 2x bolts , t30 , 12 nm
drain the coolant from the power conversion system . see penthouse coolant .
remove the high voltage controller . see controller high voltage .
install the squarish insulator caps onto the pyrotechnic battery disconnect busbar bolt heads .
remove the penthouse cover . see cover penthouse .
make sure the vehicle is in park .
install the penthouse probe lid cover gasket .
disconnect the electrical harness from the trunk electrical harness connectors that are located under the package tray .
use the up arrow and down arrow buttons to set the resistance meter to the 3mω range .
set the penthouse service cover over the penthouse .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the front lh wheel liner area .
remove the front harness clips from the outer side of the rh frame rail .
install the lh center display bracket note 2x bolts , t30 , 12 nm
fasten the clip that attaches the coolant hose to the battery bracket .
remove the pyrotechnic battery disconnect from the penthouse . see pyrotechnic battery disconnect .
remove the nut that attaches the positive terminal of the dcdc harness to the positive dcdc passthrough busbar .
install the round insulator caps onto the hv battery positive contactor busbar bolt heads .
set the insulation multimeter to measure resistance , and touch the probe tips together . caution if the multimeter displays greater than 0.2 ohms , the leads are defective and must be replaced . do not use defective leads .
fully lower all door windows to avoid glass shatter and door lockout conditions .
remove the pyrotechnic battery disconnect . see pyrotechnic battery disconnect .
install the hv battery probe cover . see cover hv probe hv battery .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the cpillar area .
attach the alligator clips together so that the red clip `` bites '' the upper jaw of the black clip , and that the `` v '' on each clip is up .
remove the pyrotechnic battery disconnect shunt insulator . figure 1 . 1st generation figure 2 . 2nd generation
disconnect the electrical harness from the connectors at the front of the front lh wheel liner area .
disconnect the rh front wheel speed sensor connector .
install the clip located on the rh side of cross car beam
remove the nut that attaches the negative terminal of the dcdc harness to the negative dcdc passthrough busbar .
install the round insulator caps onto the hv battery negative contactor busbar bolt heads .
consider your next step : if the positive contactor is suspect to have seized , go to step 4 . if the negative contactor is suspect to have seized , go to step 9 . if both contactors are suspect , or there is uncertainty , start with step 4 .
open the lh and rh rear doors , and then pass a shop towel halfway through each door striker to prevent the latch from securing .
disconnect the electrical harness from the shunt connector .
disconnect the electrical harness from the subwoofer and amplifier connectors .
verify that a resistance is displayed . note if `` . `` is displayed , check the lead connections to the resistance meter and the how the clips attach together .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the pyrotechnic battery disconnect to the hv battery , and then remove the pyrotechnic battery disconnect from the vehicle .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the front lh wheel area .
remove the front wheel speed sensor harness clips at the front of the rh front wheel arch .
connect ip harness connectors to rh controller area note 3x connector
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the hinge tray .
raise the high voltage controller to the vertical position .
release the clip and disconnect the dcdc harness from the power conversion system .
raise the high voltage controller , install the fuse access insulator onto the rh penthouse bus cover , fasten the clips that attach the insulator to the cover , and lower the high voltage controller .
remove the nuts that attach the rear drive unit hv electrical harness bracket to the hv battery . 10 nm
inspect the center of the insulator caps on top of the hv battery positive contactor terminals : if the insulator caps have a probing hole , continue to step 5 . if the insulator caps are solid , remove the insulator caps and continue to step 5 .
loosen the nut that attaches the positive lead to the battery , and then remove the lead from the battery . 6 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket ¼ in std ratchet 4 in extension
unhook the electrical harness from the shunt insulator , and then remove the shunt insulator , if installed .
press and hold the 0adj button to start the zero adjust operation . note the text `` 0 adj '' blinks in the upper right corner of the resistance meter 's display .
install the dummy disconnect where the pyrotechnic battery disconnect was removed .
disconnect the electrical harness from the front lh side repeater lamp connector .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body at the rear of the front rh wheel arch area .
install dash harness connector to right body controller note 1x connector
raise the hinge tray vertically , pull up on the tray at each hinge , and then remove the tray from the vehicle .
raise the locking tab on the 12v dcdc passthrough connector , and then remove the connector from the power conversion system .
remove the bolts that attaches the dcdc ground busbar to the body .
install the special insulator onto the dc input assembly busbar bolt heads .
position a coolant drain under the rh rear of the hv battery .
set the multimeter to measure the dc voltage across both terminals of the hv battery positive contactor , either through the probing hole of the insulator caps or directly onto the terminals : if the measured voltage is outside the range of 0.1v to 0.1v , then the hv battery positive contactor is not seized . continue to step 6 . caution do not make the resistance measurement below because it could damage the multimeter . if the measured voltage is between 0.1v and 0.1v , set the multimeter to measure resistance and measure the resistance across the hv battery positive contactor terminals : if the measured resistance is greater than 1m ohm , then the hv battery positive contactor is not seized . proceed to step 6 . if the measured resistance is lower than 1m ohm , then the hv battery positive contactor might be seized . discontinue this procedure and replace the hv battery positive contactor . see contactor positive hv battery , and then retest .
remove and discard the bolt that attaches the shunt to the busbar .
release the rh body harness clips around the rh side of the trunk area .
approximately 2 seconds later , the resistance meter beeps and `` 0 adj '' is now constant . note if `` fail `` is displayed , check the clips , the leads , and the connection to the resistance meter , and repeat from step 3 .
disconnect the front harness connectors for the rh side repeater and camera .
connect ip harness connectors to car computer note 2x connectors
cut a slit halfway through 2 absorbent pads and surround each power conversion system coolant tube fitting with a pad .
remove and discard the nut that attaches the dcdc ground busbar to the hv battery , and remove the dcdc ground busbar from the vehicle . 15 nm
install the ac inlet terminal covers over the positive and negative ring terminal bolts , and fasten the clips that attach the ac inlet terminal covers to the hv battery fast charge contactor cover .
release the clip , disconnect the rh inner hv battery return hose fitting from the rh end of the hv battery platter enclosure , and quickly plug both the male and female fittings ..
set the multimeter to measure resistance , and then perform the following measurements : resistance test battery positive b+ gnd measured resistance more than 1 m ohm measured resistance less than 1 m ohm battery positive to chassis positive lead negative lead pass fail resistance is lower than expected in the battery pack itself . escalate a toolbox session . b+ to chassis positive lead negative lead pass fail resistance is lower than expected in the hv battery positive contactor or penthouse . replace the hv battery positive contactor . see contactor positive hv battery , and then retest .
disconnect the hose from the lh side of the battery , and then remove the battery from the vehicle .
release the clips that attach the hv battery penthouse harness to the hinge tray . note pull and unhook to release the flat rectangular clips .
on the touchscreen , touch controls > safety & security > vehicle power > power off . caution do not proceed until the climate control system has been powered off for at least 30 seconds . do not disconnect 12v power while the climate control system is operational .
remove the shunt from the vehicle .
remove the rh body harness from the vehicle .
detach the clips from each other and unplug the leads from the resistance meter . caution do not change the range , otherwise the resistance meter must be zero adjusted again .
remove the dummy disconnect from where the pyrotechnic battery disconnect will install .
for model 3 with active hood : release both front corners , then pull the front frascia away from the vehicle .
disconnect the front harness connector for the lh front carrier harness .
secure hvac harness to ip harness note 3x harness holders
use the coolant connector removal tool to release the clips that attach the coolant input tube to the power conversion system , and remove the tube from the power conversion system . see tube input coolant power conversion system .
remove the bolts that attach the 12v dcdc passthrough to the penthouse , and then remove the 12v dcdc passthrough from the penthouse ..
continue to the procedure that required the penthouse cover to be removed .
slide the release to unlock the hv battery ptc heater and a/c compressor connector handle of the ptc heater and a/c compressor to hv battery harness from the secured position .
reinstall the hv battery positive contactor insulator caps , if they were removed earlier .
write the last 6 digits of the vehicle vin clearly onto the removed battery so that it can be identified if later needed .
loosen the nut that attaches the 12v battery negative cable to the battery , and then disconnect the cable from the battery .
plug the hioki 9461 test probe leads into the resistance meter . note align the arrows of the lead connectors to the arrows on the resistance meter .
use an ipa wipe to clean the hv mating surfaces of the shunt , busbar , and the pryotechnic battery disconnect .
install ip harness clip to hvac assembly next to the rh upper mode actuator note 1x clip
install plugs into the coolant input port of the power conversion system and the open end of the coolant input tube .
remove the bolts that attach the 12v dcdc passthrough to the penthouse , and then remove the 12v dcdc passthrough from the penthouse .
remove the bolts that attach the hv header to the hv battery .
fully raise the handle on the hv battery ptc heater and a/c compressor connector .
if the hv battery negative contactor is also suspect to have seized , or there is uncertainty , go to step 9 . otherwise , return to the vehicle electrical isolation procedure .
remove the power conversion system . see power conversion system .
remove the foam cover from the rh side of the penthouse .
record the 5digit shunt resistance as printed at the bottom of the part number label of the new shunt . note the resistance is in the range of 20000 to 30000 nano ohms . for example , `` r:25819nω '' is a resistance of 25819 nano ohms , so record `` 25819 '' .
the resistance meter is now ready to measure resistance . return to the procedure that required the zero adjust to be performed .
position the pyrotechnic battery disconnect into the hv battery for installation . make sure to align the pins of the connector with the new pyrotechnic battery disconnect .
install ip harness clip to hvac assembly next to the rh lower duct thermistor note 1x clip
use the coolant connector removal tool to release the clips that attach the coolant output tube to the power conversion system , and remove the tube from the power conversion system . see tube output coolant power conversion system .
use an ipa wipe to clean the mating surfaces of the dcdc passthrough , and the dcdc harness .
insert the extractor tool into the hv header , push the tool handle in , and pull on the header to remove it from the hv battery .
remove the hv battery ptc heater and a/c compressor connector from the hv battery header .
inspect the center of the insulator caps on top of the hv battery negative contactor terminals : if the insulator caps have a probing hole at the center , continue to step 10 . if the insulator caps are solid , remove the insulator caps and continue to step 10 .
power off the vehicle from the center display .
remove the hv battery negative contactor . see contactor negative hv battery .
disconnect the electrical harness from the high voltage controller connector . note the hv battery positive contactor and negative contactor open with a clunk sound .
install the new bolts that attach the pyrotechnic battery disconnect to the hv battery , and then mark the bolts with a paint pen after they are torqued . 9 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : insulated tools : 13 mm socket 6 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
remove the lh and rh rear cpillar trim . see trim cpillar rear lh .
install the ip harness clips to body note 4x harness clips
disconnect the electrical harness from the car computer connectors .
install plugs into the coolant output port of the power conversion system and the open end of the coolant output tube .
install the 12v dcdc passthrough into the penthouse , install the bolts that attach the 12v dcdc passthrough to the penthouse , and then mark the bolts with a paint pen after they are torqued . 10 nm
install the hv header onto the hv battery . note push and pull on the header to make sure it is secured .
remove the bolts that attach the ptc heater and a/c compressor hv header to the hv battery .
set the multimeter to measure the dc voltage across both terminals of the hv battery negative contactor , either through the probing hole of the insulator caps or directly onto the terminals : if the measured voltage is outside the range of 0.1v to 0.1v , then the hv battery negative contactor is not seized . continue to step 11 . caution do not make the resistance measurement below because it could damage the multimeter . if the measured voltage is between 0.1v and 0.1v , set the multimeter to measure resistance and measure the resistance across the hv battery negative contactor terminals : if the measured resistance is greater than 1m ohm , then the hv battery negative contactor is not seized . proceed to step 11 . if the measured resistance is lower than 1m ohm , then the hv battery negative contactor might be seized . discontinue this procedure and replace the hv battery negative contactor . see contactor negative hv battery , and then retest .
disconnect the lv battery connector from the lv battery : lift up to release the green locking tab , and pull the black connector lock outwards to release the connector , then pull up to disconnect the connector .
remove the hv battery dc input assembly . see dc input assembly hv battery .
install the logic connector cap onto the high voltage controller connector to prevent mistaken reconnection and protect the connector .
install the shunt to the busbar , and then install and handtighten a new bolt to attach the shunt to the busbar .
plug the hioki 9461 test probe leads into the resistance meter . note both the positive and negative lead connectors have arrows or marks that align to arrows on the resistance meter .
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance at the hv joint between the newlyinstalled pyrotechnic battery disconnect and the lh busbar . note the maximum acceptable resistance is 0.060 mω . if the resistance is above this value , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate .
release the clips that attach the package tray electrical harness to the body in the upper cpillar area .
connect ip harness connector to restrain control module note 1x connector , engage locking tab
remove and discard the bolt that attaches the electrical harness ground strap to the body in the passenger footwell area .
wipe around the power conversion system coolant ports , wipe the ends of the coolant tubes , and wipe up any spilled coolant . caution spilled coolant can create an electrical path .
install the bolt that attaches the dcdc ground busbar to the body , and then mark the bolt with a paint pen after it is torqued . 20 nm
install and handtighten the bolts that attach the hv header to the hv battery
insert the extractor tool into the ptc heater and a/c compressor hv header , push the tool levers in to release the clips that attach the header to the ptc heater and a/c compressor pin carrier , and then pull on the header to remove it from the hv battery .
set the multimeter to measure resistance , and then perform the following measurements : resistance test battery negative b gnd measured resistance more than 1 m ohm measured resistance less than 1 m ohm battery negative to chassis positive lead negative lead pass fail resistance is lower than expected in the battery pack itself . escalate a toolbox session . b to chassis positive lead negative lead pass fail resistance is lower than expected in the hv battery negative contactor or penthouse . replace the hv battery negative contactor . see contactor negative hv battery , and then retest .
disconnect the first responder loop .
remove the hv battery fast charge contactor from the penthouse . see contactor fast charge hv battery . note do not disassemble the hv battery fast charge contactor assembly after removal .
before continuing , wait 2 minutes for the electrical system to fully discharge .
position the pyrotechnic battery disconnect into the hv battery for installation . make sure to align the pins of the connector with the pyrotechnic battery disconnect .
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance at the hv joint between the newlyinstalled pyrotechnic battery disconnect and the shunt . note the maximum acceptable resistance is 0.045 mω . if the resistance is above this value , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . figure 3 . generic measurement actual busbars and fasteners might appear different
disconnect the package tray electrical harness from the rh body harness connector .
install clip securing center speaker harness to hvac assembly note 1x clip
if the dcdc passthrough is a cable type , skip to step 15 , otherwise , continue to the next step .
install the dcdc ground busbar to the dcdc passthrough , install a new nut to attach the dcdc ground busbar to the dcdc passthrough , and then mark the nut with a paint pen after it is torqued . 15 nm
tighten the bolts to proper torque . 10 nm
release the clips that attach the ptc heater and a/c compressor pin carrier to the bracket inside of the hv battery , and then separate the pin carrier from the bracket . note pull down as one clip is released , then release the second clip .
reinstall the hv battery negative contactor insulator caps , if they were removed earlier .
wait 2 minutes for the electrical system to fully discharge .
remove the clip that confines the lh halleffect sensor to the lh flood port cover above the lh flood port .
if 12v power was disconnected to service a high voltage component , verify that high voltage power is no longer available to that component . see vehicle electrical isolation procedure .
install the new bolts that attach the pyrotechnic battery disconnect to the hv battery , and then mark the bolts with a paint pen after they are torqued . 9 nm
press and release the 0adj button to start the zero adjust operation . note the text `` 0 adj '' blinks in the upper right corner of the resistance meter 's display .
install the pyrotechnic battery disconnect shunt insulator . figure 4 . 1st generation figure 5 . 2nd generation
release the clip , and then disconnect the package tray speaker electrical harness from the tuner connectors .
connect blower motor connector note 1x connector
firmly connect the dcdc passthrough connector to the power conversion system , and then lower the locking tab .
connect the dcdc harness to the power conversion system , and then fasten the clip that attaches the dcdc harness to the power conversion system .
install the ptc heater and a/c compressor pin carrier into the ptc heater and a/c compressor hv header , and fasten the clips that attach the pin carrier to the header . note use a plastic pry tool to make sure that the pin carrier fully inserts into the header , and does not move into the hv battery
return to the vehicle electrical isolation procedure .
release positive jump post .
release the tab that holds the lh halleffect sensor to the lh flood port cover , and then separate the sensor from under the tab .
tighten the bolt that attaches the shunt to the busbar , and then mark the bolt with a paint pen after it is torqued . 9 nm
touch the probes to the indentations on either side of the resistance block special tool , and hold the probes vertically .
remove the penthouse service cover from the penthouse .
release the clip that attaches the package tray electrical harness to the lh cpillar .
install blower motor harness clip to hvac assembly note 1x clip
disconnect the electrical harness from the connectors in the lower bpillar area .
lower the high voltage controller to the horizontal position .
install the nut that attaches the negative terminal of the dcdc harness to the negative dcdc passthrough busbar , and then mark the nut with a paint pen after it is torqued . 4.5 nm
perform a pushpullpush test to make sure the ptc heater and a/c compressor pin carrier is secured in the ptc heater and a/c compressor hv header .
remove lv battery cable stand off .
remove the 12v dc passthrough . see passthrough dcdc 12v .
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance of the hv joint between the shunt and the adjacent busbar . note the maximum acceptable resistance is 0.045 mω . if the resistance is above this value , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . figure 1 . generic measurement actual busbars and fasteners might appear different
remove the rh lower bpillar trim . see trim bpillar lower lh .
disconnect the electrical harness from the antenna amplifier connector .
connect ip harness connector to electronic steering column note 1x connector
raise the locking tab on the dcdc passthrough connector , and then remove the connector from the power conversion system . tip : use a plastic trim tool to help disconnect the dcdc passthrough connector . figure 1 . busbar type dcdc passthrough figure 2 . cable type dcdc passthrough
install the pyrotechnic battery disconnect into the penthouse . see pyrotechnic battery disconnect .
install the nut that attaches the positive terminal of the dcdc harness to the positive dcdc passthrough busbar , and then mark the nut with a paint pen after it is torqued . 4.5 nm
remove the bolts that attach the lv battery to the vehicle .
connect the hvac connector to the left body controller note 1x connector
remove the lv battery from the vehicle .
release the clips that attach the lh and rh sides of the rear main cabin carpet to the body .
connect the dash connector to the left body controller note 1x connector , fully seat connector and pull release tab into locking position
install the bolts that attach the lv battery to the vehicle . 5 nm
release the clips that attach the front lh main cabin carpet to the body , and then remove the carpet from the vehicle .
install headliner harness clips to lower apillar note 2x clips
install positive jump post . 5 nm
disconnect the electrical harness from the accelerator and the brake pedal connectors .
connect headliner harness connector note 1x connector
disconnect the electrical harness from the rear seat belt buckle connectors , the hv battery controller connector , and the cpillar airbag sensor connector .
install lv battery cable stand off .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body under the ip carrier area .
install driver air wave duct into hvac assembly
loosen the nut that attaches the 12v battery negative cable to the battery , and then disconnect the cable from the battery . caution disconnect 12v battery negative cable before disconnecting the first responder loop .
remove and discard the bolt that attaches the electrical harness ground strap at the driver footwell area .
connect lh upper duct thermistor to driver air wave duct note 1x connector
connect the lv battery connector to the lv battery : insert the connector , then push the black connector lock inwards to engage the connector , and then seat the green locking tab after lock is fully secured . note if the vehicle does not power up after the lv battery is connected , power up the vehicle with an approved external power supply .
locate the first responder loop next to the rh side of the 12v auxiliary battery .
disconnect the electrical harness from the lh body controller module connectors .
install screws securing driver air wave duct to cross car beam note 2x screws , t20 , 2.3 nm
slide the red locking tab back , press the black tab , and then disconnect the first responder loop .
release the clips that attach the front lh and front rh main cabin carpet to the body , and then remove the carpets from the vehicle .
release the clips that attach the electrical harnessto the body in the lh body controller module area .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body at the rh side of the trunk area .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the lh lower bpillar areas .
use oil injector to add measured amount of oil back to the system note use calculated oil lost measurement and add new nd11 oil into the system , calculate oil loss during recovery and add 40 ml to compensate for estimated oil loss in old hvac case , if more than 30 ml drained out during recovery refer to drained oil loss chart : vacuum leak test and oil injection .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body at the rh side of the tail lamp area .
remove the clip that attaches the lh foortwell air duct , and then remove the duct .
lift up the rear portion of the floor duct to release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body under the front lh seat and rh lower bpillar areas .
disconnect the electrical harness from the lh body controller module connectors . figure 1 . lhd shown , rhd similar
disconnect the electrical harness from the connectors in the rh lower bpillar area .
install ip carrier onto cross car beam note 4x mounting tabs , recommend assistance , slide mounting tabs on ip carrier into brackets on vehicle , be cautious to clear the harness clipped at top center of hvac assembly , this will also ease installation
remove the rear apron . see underhood apron rear .
remove and discard the bolt that attaches the electrical harness ground strap at the lh footwell area . figure 2 . lhd shown , rhd similar
disconnect the electrical harness from the passive supplemental restraint control module connector .
install screw securing ip carrier to cross car beam on upper rh side note 1x screw , t20 , 2.3 nm
disconnect the lv battery connector from the lv battery : lift up to release the green locking tab , pull the black connector lock outwards to release the connector , and then pull up to disconnect the connector .
disconnect the connectors from the lh front door harness clip at the lh front body controller .
remove and discard the bolt that attaches the electrical harness ground strap to the body in the lh lower bpillar area .
install screws securing ip carrier to cross car beam at upper center note 2x screws , t20 , 2.3 nm
disconnect the first responder loop . note before proceeding to service the vehicle , allow 2 minutes for all electrical circuits to discharge .
disconnect front harness white connector from the lh body harness and separate it from the front left body controller .
release the clips that attach the harness to the body in the bpillar area .
install screws securing ip carrier to cross car beam at lower center note 2x screws , t20 , 2.3 nm
remove the hv battery fast charge contactor . see contactor fast charge hv battery .
disconnect body 1 , body 2 and body 3 , connectors from the lh front body controller .
disconnect the electrical harness from the lh door connector and the front lh seat belt connector .
install screw securing ip carrier to cross car beam on upper lh side note 1x screw , t20 , 2.3 nm
release the clips that attach the ac inlet terminal covers over the negative and positive ring terminals , and then remove the covers .
raise the high voltage controller , release the clips that attach the fuse access insulator to the rh penthouse bus cover , and remove the insulator .
remove the logic connector cap from the high voltage controller connector .
disconnect front harness white connector from the lh body harness and separate it from front left body controller .
disconnect the headliner harness .
release the clips that attach the harness to the body in the lower cpillar area .
push the rear portion of the electrical harness through the rh side of the trunk bulkhead .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the negative and positive ring terminals to the busbars . i
remove the power conversion system coolant output tube . see tube output coolant power conversion system .
remove and discard the nuts that attach the power conversion system fuse to the rh penthouse bus and remove the fuse .
remove and discard the nuts that attach the ptc heater fuse to the rh penthouse bus and remove the fuse .
connect the electrical harness to the high voltage controller connector .
disconnect the electrical harness from the connectors in the lower cpillar area .
release the clips that attach the hv battery fast charge contactor cover to the hv battery fast charge contactor , and then remove the cover with the hv battery ac inlet harness from the contactor . caution the cover is a onetime use as the clips are fragile and break easily .
remove the clip that attaches the hv battery penthouse harness from the hv battery fast charge contactor .
install the foam cover to the rh side of the penthouse .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the lh side curtain airbag and tpms module areas .
release the clips that attach the hv battery probing guide to the hv battery and remove the guide from the penthouse .
install the power conversion system fuse to the rh penthouse bus , and then install new nuts to attach the fuse to the bus . 4.5 nm
install the ptc heater fuse to the rh penthouse bus , and then install new nuts to attach the fuse to the bus . 4.5 nm
disconnect the electrical harness from the lh side curtain airbag connector .
install the rh body harness into the vehicle .
use an ipa wipe to clean the mating surfaces of the positive ring terminal to the positive busbar , and the negative ring terminal to the negative busbar .
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance at the hv joint between the penthouse bus and the lh side of the power conversion system fuse body . note the maximum acceptable resistance is 0.105 mω . if the resistance is above this value , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . figure 1 . generic measurement actual busbars and fasteners might appear different
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance at the hv joint between the penthouse bus and the lh side of the ptc heater fuse body . note the maximum acceptable resistance is 0.105 mω . if the resistance is above this value , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . figure 1 . generic measurement actual busbars and fasteners might appear different
connect the 12v battery negative cable to the battery , press down to firmly seat the terminal clamp onto the battery post .
disconnect the electrical harness from the tpms module connector .
install the hv battery fast charge contactor cover onto the hv battery fast charge contactor , and fasten the clips that attach the cover to the contactor .
wipe up any spilled coolant . caution spilled coolant can create an electrical path .
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance at the hv joint between the rh side of the power conversion system fuse and the respective ring terminal plating . note the maximum acceptable resistance is 0.145 mω . if the resistance is above this value , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . figure 2 . generic measurement actual busbars and fasteners might appear different
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance at the hv joint between the rh side of the ptc heater fuse and the respective ring terminal plating . note the maximum acceptable resistance is 0.145 mω . if the resistance is above this value , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . figure 2 . generic measurement actual busbars and fasteners might appear different
install the nut that attaches the clamp to the post . 6 nm
disconnect the lh body harness connector from the passive supplemental restraint control module .
disconnect the electrical harness from lh rear seat belt connector .
raise the vehicle .
install new bolts to attach the positive and negative ring terminals to the busbars , and then mark the bolts with a paint pen after they are torqued . 4.4 nm
install the hv battery probing guide into the penthouse , and then fasten the clips that attach the guide to the hv battery .
install the fuse access insulator on the rh penthouse bus cover , fasten the clips that attach the insulator to the cover , and lower the high voltage controller .
remove and discard the bolt that attaches the electrical harness ground strap to the body in the lh lower bpillar area .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the lh side trunk area .
move the rear portion of the electrical harness in through the rh side of the trunk bulkhead .
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance between the copper portion of the positive ring terminal and the busbar to which that terminal is secured . note the maximum acceptable resistance is 0.150 mω . if the resistance is above this value , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . figure 1 . generic measurement actual busbars and fasteners might appear different
install the clip that attaches the hv battery penthouse harness to the hv battery fast charge contactor .
disconnect the electrical harness from the charge port ecu connectors .
connect the electrical harness to the rear subframe harness connector and the rh electric parking brake connector .
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance between the copper portion of the negative ring terminal and the busbar to which that terminal is secured . note the maximum acceptable resistance is 0.150 mω . if the resistance is above this value , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . figure 2 . generic measurement actual busbars and fasteners might appear different
install the power conversion system coolant output tube . see tube output coolant power conversion system . caution make sure that the coolant output tube is securely connected by firmly pressing down on the fittings , verify that both clips have fully engaged the barb on the power conversion system and battery flange , and then pull up on the fittings to check retention .
remove and discard the bolt that attaches the harness ground strap to the body in the charge port area .
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the rear subframe area .
install the ac inlet terminal covers , and fasten the clips that attach the covers over the positive and negative ring terminals .
perform a penthouse coolant leak test . see penthouse coolant leak test .
remove the lh body harness from the vehicle .
install the hv battery fast charge contactor . see contactor fast charge hv battery .
connect the 12v auxiliary battery negative terminal only . 6 nm caution do not follow the procedure to connect 12v power at this time .
install the lh body harness into the vehicle .
connect a 12v charger to the 12v auxiliary battery terminals .
release the lh harness branch routed to the lh rear seat belt buckle .
install a new bolt to attach the electrical harness ground strap to the body in the charge port area . 8 nm
remove the bolts that attach the 2nd row seat cushion edge support bracket to the vehicle , and then remove the bracket from the vehicle .
disconnect the lh body harness connectors around the lower cpillar area
connect the electrical harness to the charge port ecu connectors .
remove the lh seat belt retractor foam .
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the lh side trunk area .
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the rear fascia area .
connect the electrical harness to lh rear seat belt connector .
remove the bolt that holds the charge port busbar access door at the penthouse hv header , and then open the access door .
connect the electrical harness to the tpms module connector .
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body at the rh side of the tail lamp area .
remove the bolts that attach the charge port busbars to the hv header .
for model 3 with active hood : disconnect the electrical connectors from the horn assembly .
disconnect the front harness connector from the lh acceleration sensor .
for model 3 with active hood : disconnect lh and rh front ped pro pressure tube sensor .
disconnect the harness connecors from the horns .
remove the upper bolt that attaches the windshield washer reservoir to the body , and then remove the reservoir from the vehicle .
remove the front harness clips from the outer lh frame rail area .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the front rh frame area .
disconnect the front harness connector from the cfm .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the bulkhead area .
disconnect the lh front wheel speed sensor connector .
disconnect the electrical harness from the connectors in the bulkhead area .
disconnect the lh front ride height sensor connector .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the lh frame rail area .
remove the front harness clips at the lh front wheel arch area . note 2 or 3 clips , depening on vehicle specification .
verify that a resistance is displayed . note if `` . `` is displayed , check the lead connections to the resistance meter and the how the probe tips contact the resistance block .
install the penthouse cover . see cover penthouse .
route the lh side of the electrical harness from the wheel liner , through the underhood storage unit area , and to the front body controller module area .
remove the front harness clips for the lh side repeater and camera harness .
install the ptc heater and a/c compressor hv header onto the hv battery . note make sure that the ptc heater and a/c compressor pin carrier is secure in the bracket .
remove the hv battery positive contactor . see contactor positive hv battery .
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance of the hv joint between the pyrotechnic battery disconnect and the shunt . note the maximum acceptable resistance is 0.045 mω . if the resistance is above this value , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . figure 2 . generic measurement actual busbars and fasteners might appear different
approximately 2 seconds later , the resistance meter beeps and `` 0 adj '' is now constant . note if `` fail '' is displayed , check the probe tips , the leads , and the connection to the resistance meter , and repeat from step 3 .
route the rh side of the electrical harness from the wheel liner , through the underhood storage unit area , and to the front body controller module area .
disconnect the front harness connectors for the lh side repeater and camera .
disconnect the lv connector , the dc bus hv connector , and the hv battery ac inlet harness connector from the power conversion system .
install the penthouse cover . see cover penthouse . note perform a penthouse air leak test when instructed to do so .
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance between the positive joint of the dcdc harness and the positive terminal of the 12v dcdc passthrough . note the maximum acceptable resistance is 0.100 mω . if the resistance is above this value , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . figure 1 . generic measurement actual busbars and fasteners might appear different
install the bolts that attach the ptc heater and a/c compressor hv header to the hv battery . 10 nm
remove the insulator cap from the nut that joins the positive dc link to the positive busbar .
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance of the hv joint between the pyrotechnic battery disconnect and the lh busbar . note the maximum acceptable resistance is 0.060 mω . if the resistance is above this value , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate .
remove the probes from the resistance block special tool . caution do not change the range , otherwise the resistance meter must be zero adjusted again .
remove the electrical harness from the vehicle .
release the clips that attach the hv battery ac inlet harness to the power conversion system , and move the harness aside .
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance between the negative joint of the dcdc harness and the negative terminal of the 12v dcdc passthrough . note the maximum acceptable resistance is 0.100 mω . if the resistance is above this value , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . figure 2 . generic measurement actual busbars and fasteners might appear different
fully raise the handle on the hv battery ptc heater and a/c compressor connector of the ptc heater and a/c compressor to hv battery harness .
remove and discard the nut that joins the positive dc link to the positive busbar .
install the shunt insulator , if previously removed .
install the electrical harness into the vehicle .
remove the hex head bolts that attach the power conversion system to the hv battery . note some 5bolt power conversion system mountings have only 4 bolts . upon installation of the power conversion system , install the fifth bolt . figure 3 . vehicles made before 9/11/18 6bolts figure 4 . vehicles made on 9/11/18 and thereafter 5bolts
install the high voltage controller . see controller high voltage .
use both hands to firmly connect the hv battery ptc heater and a/c compressor connector of the ptc heater and a/c compressor to hv battery harness to the hv battery header . caution make sure that the connector fits the header squarely and tightly , and that both retention pins enter the handle .
remove the nuts that attach the positive dc link to the penthouse floor , lift the link off of the studs and posts , and then move the link inboard to access the hv battery penthouse harness clips .
connect the electrical harness to the shunt connector , and then hook the electrical harness to the shunt insulator , if installed .
route the rh side of the electrical harness from the front body controller module area , through the underhood storage unit area , and to the rh wheel liner .
release the front harness clips that attach the hvil harnesses to the bulkhead .
with assistance , use suction cups to lift the power conversion system out of the penthouse . caution keep the power conversion system level as you lift it , to prevent spilling coolant .
verfiy that the hv battery rear drive unit connector is fully seated , and compare both sides of the connector that it is properly secured in place . note an improperly seated connector might lead to connector damage and rear drive unit problems later on .
while pressing the hv battery ptc heater and a/c compressor connector onto the hv battery header , fully lower the handle . caution make sure that the handle does not bind as it is lowered .
release the clips that attach the hv battery penthouse harness to the positive dc link insulator , and remove the dc link from the penthouse . note the rear most clip is behind the positive dc link insulator .
install the pyrotechnic battery disconnect shunt insulator . figure 3 . 1st generation figure 4 . 2nd generation
route the lh side of the electrical harness from the front body controller module area , through the underhood storage unit area , and to the lh wheel liner .
disconnect the electrical harness from the hvil connectors in the bulkhead area .
visually inspect the area from which the power conversion system was removed . if any of the insulators are missing from the busbar bolt heads , install the insulators now . if all of the insulators are installed , continue to the next step .
install the nuts that attach the rear drive unit hv electrical harness bracket to the hv battery . 10 nm
slide the release to lock the hv battery ptc heater and a/c compressor connector handle in the secured position .
use the ufo connector removal tool to disconnect the rh passthrough connector from the hv battery module 4 bms connector . caution do not try to remove the rh passthrough in this step , as it will be damaged . only disconnect the connector . tip : access the penthouse from the rh rear door area for this step . figure 1 . view from rh rear door
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the lh frame rail area .
remove the front harness clips at the lh frame rail . note number of clips may vary .
remove the plugs from the power conversion system , drain the coolant into a coolant drain , and then replace the plugs .
verfiy that the hv battery ptc heater and a/c compressor connector is fully seated , and compare both sides of the connector that it is properly secured in place . note an improperly seated connector might lead to connector damage and ptc heater or a/c compressor problems later on .
use a pry tool to release the rh passthrough clips that attach the rh passthrough to the posts of the penthouse floor , and then separate the passthrough from the penthouse floor .
connect the electrical harness to the connectors in the bulkhead area .
remove the front harness clips at the rh front frame rail . note number of clips may vary .
remove the absorbent pads from around the power conversion system coolant ports .
remove the plugs from the male and female fittings , quickly connect the rh inner hv battery return hose to the hv battery platter enclosure , and then fasten the clip .
remove the clip that confines the rh halleffect sensor to the rh flood port cover above the rh flood port .
use a paint pen to write the 5digit new shunt resistance value from step 2 and the date onto the penthouse cover . note for example , `` shunt res 25819 , 05/25/2021 '' .
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the bulkhead area .
perform a penthouse air leak test . see penthouse air leak test .
remove the coolant drain from under the rh rear of the hv battery .
release the tab that holds the rh halleffect sensor to the rh flood port cover , and then separate the sensor from under the tab .
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the front rh frame area .
consider your next step . if the removed power conversion system is to be reinstalled , go to step 6 . if a replacement power conversion system is to be installed , continue to the next step .
remove the cable ties that attach the hv battery penthouse harness to the power conversion system dc bus hv harness on either side of the rh halleffect sensor .
attach the laptop with toolbox 3 to the vehicle .
remove the front harness clips from the body under the windshield washer reservoir area .
remove the shipping plugs from the replacement power conversion system .
release the clips that attach the fuse access insulator to the rh penthouse bus cover , and remove the insulator .
in toolbox , select the actions/autodiag tab , type `` contactors '' into the search field , click ensure power off , and then click run . caution after the contactors open , steps 20 and 21 must be completed within 60 seconds .
release the clips that attach the coolant hoses and electrical harnesses to the battery bracket beam .
tilt the power conversion system and drain the shipping water into a coolant drain .
if installed , release the clips that attach the shunt access insulator over the shunt , and remove the insulator .
select the actions/autodiag tab , type `` shunt ohm '' into the search field , and then click hvp write shunt ohm , and then click run network .
connect the electrical harness to the front lh side repeater lamp connector .
remove the bolts that attach the battery bracket beam to the body , and then remove battery bracket beam from the vehicle .
replace the shipping plugs . note do not remove the plugs again until instructed .
release the clips that attach the hv battery penthouse harness along the busbar insulator .
in the window that opens , click on the line above submit , type the 5digit shunt resistance value from step 2 , click submit , and then wait for the routine to successfully complete . note if the routine fails , repeat from step 19 .
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the front lh wheel area .
route the lh side of the front harness from the wheel arch towards the frunk area .
wipe the power conversion system dry .
release the hv battery penthouse harness from under the respective tabs , and disconnect the harness from the a/c compressor and ptc heater high voltage interlock loop connector , the rear drive unit high voltage interlock loop connector , and the shunt connector .
connect the electrical harness to the connectors at the front of the front lh wheel liner area .
route the lh side of the front harness towards the front controller area .
inspect the area of the penthouse where the power conversion system will install , and wipe up any spilled coolant . caution spilled coolant can create an electrical path .
release the clips that attach the pyrotechnic battery disconnect connector to the penthouse floor , and separate the connector from the floor .
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body at the front lh wheel liner area .
release the harness clip at the rh shock tower .
with assistance , use suction cups to lift the power conversion system into the penthouse , and then remove the suction cups .
perform the vehicle isolation procedure . see vehicle electrical isolation procedure .
if the vehicle is configured with dual motors , release the hv battery penthouse harness from under the tab , and disconnect the harness from the front drive unit high voltage interlock loop connector .
connect the electrical harness to the front end module connector .
route the rh side of the front harness from wheel arch towards the frunk area .
install the hex head bolts that attach the power conversion system to the hv battery , and then mark the bolts with a paint pen after they are torqued . note if the 5bolt power conversion system mounting had only 4 bolts , install the fifth bolt . note use of the following tool is recommended : insulated tools : 8 mm socket 10 in extension ratchet/torque wrench 6 bolt power conversion system torque to 6 nm 5 bolt power conversion system torque to 18 nm figure 5 . vehicles made before 9/11/18 6bolts figure 6 . vehicles made on 9/11/18 and thereafter 5bolts
remove the bolt that secures the busbar access door on the busbar hv battery dc input assembly .
remove the insulator for the dc input assembly .
if the high voltage controller is being removed as part of another component 's replacement procedure , and the same controller will be installed later , go to step 15 . otherwise , continue to the next step .
release the clip that attaches the hv battery penthouse harness to the post near the lh ufo . note pull and unhook to release the flat rectangular clip .
connect the electrical harness to the connectors in the front lh fascia area .
route the rh side of the front harness towards the front controller area .
install screws securing ip carrier to cross car beam on lower lh side note 2x screws , t20 , 2.3 nm
fasten the clips that attach the hv battery ac inlet harness to the power conversion system .
remove and discard the nuts that attach the a/c compressor fuse to the rh penthouse bus and remove the fuse .
remove the bolts that attach the charge port busbar connector to the busbar hv battery dc input assembly .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the dc input busbars to the fast charge contactor busbars .
remove the rh inner 2nd row rail . see rail 2nd row inner lh .
use the ufo connector removal tool to disconnect the lh passthrough connector from the hv battery module 1 bms connector . caution do not try to remove the lh passthrough in this step , as it will be damaged . only disconnect the connector . tip : access the penthouse from the lh rear door area for this step .
connect the electrical harness to the front rh side repeater lamp connector .
remove the front harness from the vehicle .
install screws securing ip carrier to cross car beam near passenger air bag note 2x screws , t20 , 2.3 nm
remove the clip that attaches the hv battery penthouse harness to the hv battery fast charge contactor .
perform a vehicle electrical isolation procedure on the hv battery . see vehicle electrical isolation procedure .
connect the logic connector , dc bus hv connector , and hv battery ac inlet harness connector to the power conversion system . note make sure the connectors are fully seated , and then engage the locking tabs . tip : to lock the dc bus hv and hv battery ac inlet connectors , push down on the locking tab .
remove the charge port busbar connector from the busbar hv battery dc input assembly .
disconnect the electrical harness from the dc input assembly connector .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the high voltage controller internally to the penthouse cover . figure 1 . 5bolt hvc penthouse cover figure 2 . 4bolt hvc penthouse covers figure 3 . 3bolt hvc penthouse covers
use a pry tool to release the lh passthrough clips that attach the lh passthrough to the posts of the penthouse floor , remove the passthrough , and then remove the hv battery penthouse harness from the vehicle .
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body at the rear of the front rh wheel liner area .
position the front harness to the vehicle for installation . note make sure to route the rh branch underneath the a/c compressor hv harness .
install bolts securing passenger air bag assembly to cross car beam note 4x patch bolts , e10 , 8 nm , install new patch bolts
remove the 12v dcdc passthrough . see passthrough dcdc 12v .
disconnect the electrical harness from the hv battery negative contactor connectors .
remove the penthouse cover from the hv battery . see cover penthouse .
cut a slit halfway through 2 absorbent pads and surround each coolant output tube fitting with a pad .
release the lower clips that attach the lower rear edge of the lh wheel arch liner to the body , to allow access to the coolant hose .
firmly connect the dcdc passthrough connector to the power conversion system , and then lower the locking tab . figure 7 . busbar type dcdc passthrough figure 8 . cable type dcdc passthrough
install the a/c compressor fuse to the rh penthouse bus , and then install new nuts to attach the fuse to the bus . 4.5 nm
remove the bolts that attach the dc input assembly to the penthouse , and then remove the dc input assembly from the vehicle .
connect the electrical harness to the high voltage controller connector . note make sure not to pull up on the high voltage controller connector when connecting the electrical harness or anytime during in the following steps , as this might close the hvil loop , close the contactors , and cause the high voltage controller backup to fail .
connect the electrical harness to the connector at the front of the front rh wheel liner area .
route the front harness around the car computer area , attach the clips , and then move the lh side of the harness into the passenger compartment through the bulkhead . note make sure to install the grommet in the proper orientation as indicated on the grommet .
install connectors for passenger air bag note 3x connectors , 2x connectors for regions other than north america
disconnect the electrical harness from the power conversion system lv connector and dc bus hv connector , and from the hv battery positive contactor connectors .
remove the insulator caps from the hv battery negative contactor .
if necessary , install the insulators on the high voltage components within the penthouse . see insulators hv battery .
use the coolant connector removal tool to spread the tube fitting clips wider than the barb on the power conversion system . figure 1 . example of coolant connector removal tool use
release the clips that attach the harness to the hinge tray and hinges .
position the coolant drain under the front lh corner of the hv battery .
if the dcdc passthrough is a cable type , skip to step 18 , otherwise , continue to the next step .
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance at the hv joint between the penthouse bus and the lh side of the a/c compressor fuse body . note the maximum acceptable resistance is 0.105 mω . if the resistance is above this value , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . figure 1 . generic measurement actual busbars and fasteners might appear different
remove and discard the bolt that attaches the negative dc input busbar to the negative fast charge contactor busbar .
attach a 12v charger to the 12v auxiliary battery positive terminal and the 12v auxiliary battery negative cable .
lay the hv battery penthouse harness down inside of the penthouse . note the large fast charge contactor connector goes on the lh side near the lh passthrough to the hv battery .
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body at the front of the front rh wheel liner area .
route the front harness around the hvac plenum duct area , attach the clips and then move the rh side of the harness ino the passenger compartment through the bulkead . note route the harness underneath the a/c hv harness . make sure to install the grommet in the proper orientation as indicated on the grommet .
install rh speaker to ip carrier note 1x connector , 3x screws , t20 , 2.3 nm
remove the insulator caps from the hv battery positive contactor .
remove and discard the bolt that attaches the hv battery negative contactor to the negative busbar .
pull up on the tool and the tube fitting together to disconnect the fitting from the power conversion system .
raise the hinge tray and remove the hinge tray from the hinges .
release the clips that attach the battery to chiller hose to the body .
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance at the hv joint between the rh side of the a/c compressor fuse and the respective ring terminal plating . note the maximum acceptable resistance is 0.145 mω . if the resistance is above this value , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . figure 2 . generic measurement actual busbars and fasteners might appear different
remove and discard the bolt that attaches the positive dc input busbar to the positive fast charge contactor busbar .
install the dc input assembly to the penthouse , install the bolts that attach the dc input assembly to the penthouse , and then mark the bolts with a paint pen after they are torqued .. 6 nm
attach the laptop with toolbox to the vehicle .
install the lh passthrough onto the posts at the lh penthouse floor , and then press the passthrough down to fasten the passthrough clips .
connect the electrical harness to the connectors in the front rh fascia area .
route the rh side of the front harness towards the rh side of the front fascia area . note make sure that the harness is properly oriented with the clips facing the frame rail . feed the harness down behind the front fascia .
install center tweeter to ip carrier note 1x connector , 2x screws , t20 , 2.3 nm
remove and discard the bolt that attaches the hv battery positive contactor to the positive busbar .
remove and discard the nut that attaches the hv battery negative contactor to the battery terminal .
disconnect the electrical harness from the hv battery fast charge contactor connector . note squeeze the tabs on either side of the harness connector , to release the tabs from the contactor connector . caution do not pry the connectors apart , as this action breaks the tabs and connectors , and necessitates harness replacement .
remove the busbar type dc input from the hv battery . see dc input assembly hv battery .
repeat step 4 and step 5 for the other tube fitting at the battery flange .
cut a slit halfway through 2 absorbent pads and surround each coolant input tube fitting with a pad .
disconnect the battery to chiller hose at the lh side of the vehicle , plug the female connector of the hose , and allow the battery to drain .
disconnect the electrical harness from the busbar hv battery dc input assembly connector .
install new bolts to attach the dc input busbars to the fast charge contactor busbars .
press the center of the lh passthrough to connect the passthrough connector to the hv battery module 1 bms connector .
install the lower bolt that attaches the windshield washer reservoir to the body . 3 nm
attach the harness clip to the rh shock tower .
install center speaker to ip note 3x screws , t20 , 2.3 nm , 1x connector
remove and discard the nut that attaches the hv battery positive contactor to the battery terminal .
remove the nuts that attach the hv battery negative contactor to the penthouse , and then remove the contactor from the penthouse . tip : if the contactor is equipped with 3 nuts , one of the nuts is partially obscured by the lip of the penthouse . to easily remove the nut , make sure to use the special tools listed in this procedure and use the magnetic insert to help guide the insulated socket onto the nut . refer to the following video for a demonstration of how to approach this nut .
disconnect the hv battery ac inlet harness from the power conversion system connector .
place a clean shop towel into the opening for the dc input to help capture any debris .
release the clip that attaches the tube to the hv battery ac inlet harness , and remove the tube from the vehicle .
connect the coolant pressure test adapter to the battery to chiller hose male connector .
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance between the positive joint of the dcdc harness and the positive terminal of the 12v dcdc passthrough . note the maximum acceptable resistance is 0.100 mω . if the resistance is above this value , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . figure 9 . generic measurement actual busbars and fasteners might appear different
remove and discard the bolts that attach the busbar hv battery dc input assembly to the penthouse , and then remove the input assembly from the penthouse .
precondition the bolts by torquing to 15 nm , then back off one half turn , retorque to 5 nm +60 deg , and then mark the bolts with a paint pen . 15 nm 180 deg 5 nm +60 deg
verify that the vehicle firmware version is 2019.12.1 or later , otherwise update if necessary . see firmware update .
fasten the clip that attaches the hv battery penthouse harness to the post near the lh ufo .
press the brake pedal to turn on vehicle power .
install the front lh and front rh arch liners . see wheel arch liner front lh .
route the rh side of the front harness from the frunk to the rh wheel arch area .
install lh speaker to ip carrier note 3x screws , t20 , 2.3 nm , 1x connector
remove the nuts that attach the positive hv battery power switch to the penthouse .
release the clips that attach the hv battery ac inlet harness cover to the power conversion system .
use a dremel tool with wire disk attachment to remove ecoat from the bosses for the dc input weld nuts . note make sure to remove ecoat only from the weld nut bosses .
install plugs into the power conversion system and the battery flange .
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance between the negative joint of the dcdc harness and the negative terminal of the 12v dcdc passthrough . note the maximum acceptable resistance is 0.100 mω . if the resistance is above this value , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . figure 10 . generic measurement actual busbars and fasteners might appear different
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance at the hv joint between the positive dc input busbar and the positive fast charge contactor busbar . note the maximum acceptable resistance is 0.060 mω . if the resistance is above this value , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . figure 1 . generic measurement actual busbars and fasteners might appear different
in toolbox , click autodiag , and type `` backup '' into the search field .
if the vehicle is configured with dual motors , connect the hv battery penthouse harness to the front drive unit high voltage interlock loop connector , and then fasten the harness under the tab .
remove the shop towels from the rear door strikers .
install the front lh and front rh wheels . see wheel .
route the hvil connectors down along the bulkhead .
position defroster grill and lower tabs into position on ip note 6x tabs
tilt the rear of the hv battery positive contactor up , and then remove the contactor from the penthouse .
use an ipa wipe to clean the high voltage mating surfaces of the hv battery terminal , negative busbar , and the hv battery negative contactor .
remove the shop towel from the opening for the dc input .
repeat step 7 and step 8 for the other tube fitting at the battery flange .
cut a slit halfway through 2 absorbent pads and surround each power conversion system coolant tube coupling with a pad .
install the busbar hv battery dc input assembly into the penthouse . note ensure seal is not damaged and seated properly
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance at the hv joint between the negative dc input busbar and the negative fast charge contactor busbar . note the maximum acceptable resistance is 0.060 mω . if the resistance is above this value , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . figure 2 . generic measurement actual busbars and fasteners might appear different
click the arrow next to `` hvc clone backup '' , and then click run network . note this step will back up data for both the hvp and hvbms .
install the pyrotechnic battery disconnect connector into the penthouse floor , and then fasten the clips that attach the connector to the floor .
close the rear doors .
with an assistant , move the vehicle from the lift . caution the vehicle is safely pushed for only a very short distance and at a very slow speed .
route the lh side of the front harness towards the lh side front fascia area . note make sure that the plastic housing is properly oriented with the clips facing the frame rail . feed the harness down behind the front fascia .
secure clips securing defroster grill note 8x clips
install the hv battery negative contactor into the penthouse , and then install the nuts that attach the contactor into the penthouse . 8 nm
remove and discard the bolts that attach the negative and positive busbars to the dc links and dc input .
use an esd safe vacuum to clean up any debris from the hv battery and penthouse .
remove the tube from the vehicle .
remove the plugs from the coolant output tube and coolant output coupling .
install new bolts to attach the busbar hv battery dc input assembly to the penthouse , and then mark the bolts with a paint pen after tightening . 10 nm
install the insulator for the dc input assembly .
record the id number that is displayed in the autodiag .
connect the hv battery penthouse harness to the shunt connector , the rear drive unit high voltage interlock loop connector , the a/c compressor and ptc heater high voltage interlock loop connector , and then fasten the harness under the respective tabs .
return the windows , seats , climate control , audio , and charging to the state before service .
route the lh side of the front harness from the frunk towards the lh wheel arch area .
position lh air duct into ip and connect harness connector note 1x connector
use an ipa wipe to clean the high voltage mating surfaces of the hv battery terminal , positive busbar , and the hv battery positive contactor .
install a new nut to attach the hv battery negative contactor onto the hv battery terminal , and then mark the nut with a paint pen after it is torqued . 9 nm
use an alcohol wipe to clean the exposed surface of the weld nut bosses , and allow to dry .
make sure that the orings are not damaged and that they are properly seated in the connector groove prior to inserting the tube into the power conversion system . replace components as necessary . orings in good condition oring in poor condition
install a plugs into the power conversion system and the battery flange .
replace the coolant output tube orings , and then lubricate the orings with krytox 203 .
install a new bolt to attach the negative dc input busbar to the negative fast charge contactor busbar , precondition the bolt by torquing to 15 nm , then back off one half turn , retorque to 5 nm +60 deg , and then mark the bolt with a paint pen . 15 nm 180 deg 5 nm +60 deg
connect the electrical harness to the dc input assembly connector .
when the autodiag finishes , disconnect the 12v charger from the 12v auxiliary battery positive terminal and the 12v auxiliary battery negative cable .
fasten the clips that attach the hv battery penthouse harness along the busbar insulator .
connect the first responder loop , and then slide the red locking tab forward to lock the connector . caution do not reconnect the 12v negative terminal until the first responder loop is connected .
position the battery bracket beam on the vehicle , and then install the bolts that attach the battery bracket beam to the body .
install lh air duct into ip note 1x screw , t20 , 2.3 nm
tilt the rear of the hv battery positive contactor up , and then install the contactor into the penthouse .
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance at the hv joint between the hv battery negative contactor and the hv battery terminal . note the maximum acceptable resistance is 0.110 mω . if the resistance is above this value , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . figure 1 . generic measurement actual busbars and fasteners might appear different
install the harness type dc input into the hv battery . see dc input assembly hv battery .
lubricate the coolant output tube orings with krytox 203 lubricant .
disconnect the hv battery return hose at the lh side of the vehicle , plug the male connector of the hose , and allow the battery to drain .
refill the coolant . see penthouse coolant .
connect the coolant output tube to the power conversion system . see tube output coolant power conversion system . caution make sure the hose is fully aligned with the coupling and that the orings are correctly seated before attempting to install the hose . caution make sure that the coolant output tube is securely connected by firmly pressing down on it , verify that both clips have fully engaged the barb on the power conversion system , and then pull up on the fitting to check retention .
install a new bolt to attach the positive dc input busbar to the positive fast charge contactor busbar , precondition the bolt by torquing to 15 nm , then back off one half turn , retorque to 5 nm +60 deg , and then mark the bolt with a paint pen . 15 nm 180 deg 5 nm +60 deg
disconnect the electrical harness from the high voltage controller connector .
if removed , install the shunt access insulator over the shunt , and then fasten the clips that attach the insulator to the shunt .
connect the electrical harness to the rh headlight connector .
install the clips that attach the coolant hoses and electrical harnesses to the battery bracket beam .
position rh air duct into ip and connect harness connector note 1x connector
install the nuts that attach the hv battery positive contactor into the penthouse . 8 nm
install a new bolt to attach the hv battery negative contactor onto the negative busbar , and then mark the bolt with a paint pen after it is torqued . 9 nm
remove the clips that attach the hv battery penthouse harness to hv battery fast charge contactor cover .
perform a hioki resistance test between the shield of the dc input header and the threads of the nearest penthouse cover weld nut . note the acceptable resistance is between 0.30 mω and 0.50 mω . if the resistance is greater than 0.50 mω , stop work and escalate a toolbox session . if the resistance is lower than 0.30 mω , reposition the probes and measure again . if the resistance is repeatedly between 0.00 mω and 0.30 mω , the resistance test has passed .
remove the plugs from the power conversion system and the battery flange .
connect the coolant drain adapter to the hv battery return hose , and direct the tube to the coolant drain .
on the touchscreen , touch controls > safety & security > vehicle power > power off .
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance at the hv joint between the negative dc input busbar and the negative fast charge contactor busbar . note the maximum acceptable resistance is 0.060 mω . if the resistance is above this value , escalate to service engineering .
install the fuse access insulator to the rh penthouse bus cover , and then fasten the clips that attach the insulator to the cover .
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the rh headlight area .
install the clips that attach the front harness to the front frame rail area and the frunk reinforcement .
install rh air duct into ip note 1x screw , t20 , 2.3 nm
install a new nut to attach the hv battery positive contactor onto the hv battery terminal , and then mark the nut with a paint pen after it is torqued . 9 nm
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance at the hv joint between the hv battery negative contactor and the negative busbar . note the maximum acceptable resistance is 0.060 mω . if the resistance is above this value , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . figure 2 . generic measurement actual busbars and fasteners might appear different
remove the nut and bolts that attach the fast charge contactor to the penthouse , and remove the contactor with the harness from the vehicle .
inspect for the presence of the hv battery cabin heater fuse , and if missing , install one . see fuse cabin heater hv battery .
install the coolant output tube into the power conversion system and the battery flange .
disconnect the 12v charger from the 12v auxiliary battery terminals .
remove the plugs from the coolant input tube and coolant input coupling .
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance at the hv joint between the positive dc input busbar and the positive fast charge contactor busbar . note the maximum acceptable resistance is 0.060 mω . if the resistance is above this value , escalate to service engineering .
fasten the rh halleffect sensor under the tab of the rh flood port cover .
install a new bolt to attach the electrical harness ground terminal to the body in the front rh frame rail area . 8 nm
install the front harness clip at the rh front frame rail area .
install ip brow finisher into vehicle note 16x clips , need to lift top pad up slightly to slide ip brow finisher into position
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance at the hv joint between the hv battery positive contactor and the hv battery terminal . note the maximum acceptable resistance is 0.110 mω . if the resistance is above this value , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . figure 1 . generic measurement actual busbars and fasteners might appear different
install the insulator caps to the hv battery negative contactor .
remove the hv battery ac inlet harness from the contactor . see harness ac inlet hv battery .
firmly press down on the tube fittings , to make sure that the fittings are securely connected . caution verify that both clips have fully engaged the barb on the power conversion system and battery flange , and then pull up on the fittings to check retention . figure 2 . example of a secure connection
lubricate the coolant input tube orings with krytox 203 lubricant .
disconnect the coolant drain adapter , and then connect the coolant pressure test adapter plug to the hv battery return hose .
disconnect the 12v auxiliary battery negative terminal .
replace the coolant input tube orings , and then lubricate the orings with krytox 203 .
disconnect the penthouse harness from the high voltage controller connectors .
install the clip that confines the rh halleffect sensor to the rh flood port cover above the rh flood port .
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the front rh frame rail area .
install the front harness clips neer the rh headlight area .
install screws securing rh side of ip brow finisher note 4x screws , t20 , 2.3 nm , fastener count may vary , older production vehicles may have 5x screws
install a new bolt to attach the hv battery positive contactor onto the positive busbar , and then mark the bolt with a paint pen after it is torqued . 9 nm
connect the electrical harness to the hv battery negative contactor connectors .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the busbars to the fast charge contactor , and then remove the busbars from the contactor .
remove the absorbent pads from around the coolant output tube fittings , and wipe up any spilled coolant . caution spilled coolant can create an electrical path .
install the hv battery negative contactor . see contactor negative hv battery .
connect the coolant input tube to the power conversion system . see tube input coolant power conversion system . caution make sure the hose is fully aligned with the coupling and that the orings are correctly seated before attempting to install the hose . caution make sure that the coolant input tube is securely connected by firmly pressing down on it , verify that both clips have fully engaged the barb on the power conversion system , and then pull up on the fitting to check retention .
remove the bolts that attach the high voltage controller to the hinge tray , and then remove the controller from the vehicle . 2 nm figure 4 . 5bolt high voltage controller figure 5 . 4bolt high voltage controller figure 6 . 3bolt high voltage controller
install new cable ties on either side of the rh halleffect sensor to attach the hv battery penthouse harness to the power conversion system dc bus hv harness .
connect the electrical harness to the lh side curtain airbag connector .
install the bolt that attaches the electrical harness ground terminal to the body in the txv area 9 nm
install the front harness clips to the body in the windshield washer reservoir area .
install screws securing lh side of ip brow finisher note 4x screws , t20 , 2.3 nm , fastener count may vary , older production vehicles may have 5x screws
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body at the rh side of the trunk area .
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance at the hv joint between the hv battery positive contactor and the positive busbar . note the maximum acceptable resistance is 0.060 mω . if the resistance is above this value , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . figure 2 . generic measurement actual busbars and fasteners might appear different
remove the bolts that attach the fast charge contactor to the insulator , and remove the contactor from the insulator .
attach two butyl patches to the underside of the vehicle to cover the bolt holes at the locations shown , and wetout the patches with a silicone roller .
fasten the clip that attaches the tube to the hv battery ac inlet harness .
install the coolant input tube into the power conversion system and the battery flange .
use an alcohol wipe to clean residual penetrox from the charge port busbar connector contact surface , and allow 1 minute to dry .
install the high voltage controller into the penthouse , and then install the bolts that attach the high voltage controller to the hinge tray . 2 nm
install the rh passthrough onto the posts at the rh penthouse floor , and then press the passthrough down to fasten the passthrough clips .
lift and remove the charge port busbar connector from the hv header , and then put it aside on the cross member in front of the penthouse . note wiggle the connector back and forth to ease removal .
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the lh side curtain airbag and tpms module areas .
connect the electrical harness to the txv connector .
install the wind windshield washer reservoir , see reservoir windshield washer . note only install the upper bolt that attaches the windshield washer reservoir to the vehicle at this stage .
install the rh ip air wave duct note 2x push clips
connect the electrical harness to the audio tuner connector , the rh rear seat belt buckle connector , and the rh side curtain airbag connector .
install the insulator caps to the hv battery positive contactor .
return to the procedure that required the dc input to be retrofitted .
perform a penthouse coolant leak test . see penthouse coolant leak test .
use an alcohol wipe to clean the contact surface of the busbar hv battery dc input assembly header , and allow 1 minute to dry .
connect the penthouse harness to the high voltage controller connectors .
press the center of the rh passthrough to connect the passthrough connector to the hv battery module 4 bms connector .
connect the electrical harness to the connectors in the lower cpillar area .
connect rh upper duct thermistor to rh ip air wave duct note 1x connector
connect the electrical harness to the trunk electrical harness connectors that are located under the package tray .
connect the electrical harness to the hv battery positive contactor , and power conversion system lv and dc bus hv connectors .
use ipa wipes to clean the high voltage mating surfaces of the fast charge contactor and the positive and negative dc link and dc input busbars .
remove the absorbent pads from around the coolant input tube fittings , and wipe up any spilled coolant . caution spilled coolant can create an electrical path .
subtract the ending pressure from the starting pressure , and if : the difference greater than 0.2 psi , check the hose , adapter , and plug fittings , close p2 and open p1 , check the regulator pressure , and then retest from step 16 . if the difference is still greater than 0.2 psi , escalate a toolbox session . the difference is less than 0.2 psi , continue the procedure .
apply 2 drops of penetrox a13 to each contact surface of the busbar hv battery dc input assembly header , one on each side .
bring the positive dc link to the penthouse , and then fasten the clips that attach the hv battery penthouse harness to the positive dc link insulator .
connect the first responder loop . caution connect the first responder loop before connecting the lv battery connector .
disconnect the lh harness connector from the charge port ecu . note the lh harness connector on the charge port ecu is located at the rh side of the ecu .
fasten the clips that attach the harness to the body in the lower cpillar area .
install the passenger footwell air duct note 1x push clip
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the cpillar area .
install the 12v dcdc passthrough . see passthrough dcdc 12v .
install the hv battery fast charge contactor to the insulator . note align the 2 guides as the fast charge contactor is installed on the insulator .
spread the penetrox evenly so that the contact surface is completely covered .
use ipa wipes to clean the penthouse cover gasket surface , and the mating surface of the hv battery .
use an ipa wipe to clean the hv mating surfaces of the positive dc link and the positive busbar .
connect the lv battery connector to the lv battery : insert the connector , push the black connector lock inwards to engage the lock , ensure the connector is fully seated , and then engage the green locking tab .
remove and discard the bolt that attaches the harness ground strap to the body in the charge port area .
connect the electrical harness to the lh door connector and the front lh seat belt connector .
connect glove box assembly connectors note 3x connectors , new puddle lamp harness routing prevent blocking movement of pawls , make sure harness is routed properly above passenger footwell air duct before connecting
connect the electrical harness to the cpillar airbag sensor connector , the hv battery controller connector , and the rear seat belt buckle connectors .
install the bolts that attach the fast charge contactor to the insulator , and then mark the bolts with a paint pen after they are torqued . 5.5 nm
install the charge port busbar connector onto the busbar hv battery dc input assembly .
visually inspect the condition of the penthouse cover gasket and the hv battery mating surface for cracks , cuts , gouges , abrasions , or any damage that could affect the seal . note if the damage to the gasket is severe , replace the penthouse cover . if there is minor damage that might affect the seal , perform a penthouse air leak test when instructed to do so .
install the positive dc link onto the studs and posts of the penthouse floor , and then install the nuts that attach the link to the floor . 6 nm
install the rear apron . see underhood apron rear .
fasten the clips that attach the harness to the body in the bpillar area .
install the glove box into ip carrier note 3x clips
connect the positive 12v output cable to the dcdc passthrough , install a new nut to attach the cable , and mark the nut with a green paint pen after torque . 9 nm caution make sure that the rubber boot is not trapped under the cable lug or pinched between the cable lug and nut .
install the positive and negative inlet and dc link busbars to the fast charge contactor , and install new bolts to attach the busbars to the contactor .
on the touchscreen , touch controls > safety & security > vehicle power > power off .
remove the coolant pressure test adapter , coolant pressure test adapter plug , and other plugs from the hoses .
install the bolts that attach the charge port busbar connector to the busbar hv battery dc input assembly . 9 nm
use an ipa wipe to clean any residue from the high voltage controller mounting bolt holes and both the inside and outside of the penthouse cover at the bolt holes .
install a new nut to join the positive dc link to the positive busbar . 9 nm
install a new bolt to attach the electrical harness ground strap to the body in the lh lower bpillar area . 8 nm
install screws securing glove box assembly to ip carrier note 6x screws , t20 , 2.3 nm
replace the cover on the positive 12v output cable at the dcdc passthrough , and then press down to attach the cover .
connect the battery to chiller hose , and the hv battery return hose .
if a new 3bolt high voltage controller is replacing an old 4bolt high voltage controller , or a new 4bolt high voltage controller is replacing an old 5bolt high voltage controller , perform these additional steps to retrofit a penthouse cover with an aluminum retrofit patch . otherwise go to step 11 . note if a new 3bolt high voltage controller is replacing an old 5bolt high voltage controller , install both patches .
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance at the joint between the positive dc link and the positive busbar . note the maximum acceptable resistance is 0.060 mω . if the resistance is above this value , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . figure 2 . generic measurement actual busbars and fasteners might appear different
connect the electrical harness to the passive supplemental restraint control module connector .
connect glove box usb cable to car computer note 1x connector
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the cpillar lower area .
install a new hv battery ac inlet harness to the fast charge contactor . see harness ac inlet hv battery . note the ac inlet harness is reusable , but the harness cover must be replaced ..
close the busbar access door on the busbar hv battery dc input assembly and then install the bolt that secures the door closed . 9 nm
use an ipa wipe to clean the area around the high voltage controller bolt hole on the outside of the penthouse cover , and allow it to completely dry . figure 7 . 5bolt to 4bolt hvc penthouse cover figure 8 . 4bolt to 3bolt hvc penthouse cover
install the insulator cap onto the nut that joins the positive dc link to the positive busbar .
connect the electrical harness to the connectors in the rh lower bpillar area .
install the passenger knee air bag into vehicle note 1x connector , use caution not to damage the connector/harness , support the knee air bag while connecting the connector
install a new bolt to attach the electrical harness ground strap to the body in the lower bpillar area . 8 nm
install the bolts and nut that attach the fast charge assembly to the penthouse , and then mark the bolts and nut with a paint pen after they are torqued . 5.5 nm 8 nm
fasten the clips that attach the battery to chiller hose to the body .
install the hinge tray vertically onto the hinges , press down on the tray at each hinge so that the tray attaches into the hinges , and then lower the tray .
cut a patch of aluminum tape , and apply the patch to the outside of the penthouse cover , centered over the bolt hole . figure 9 . 5bolt to 4bolt patch 50mm x 50mm figure 10 . 4bolt to 3bolt patch 30mm x 30mm
install the hv battery positive contactor . see contactor positive hv battery .
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body under the front lh seat and rh lower bpillar areas .
install fasteners securing passenger knee air bag to vehicle note 4x patch bolts , e10 , 8 nm , install new patch bolts , 2x screws , t20 , 2 nm , 1x push clip , if vehicle equipped with t30 bolts , update to e10
connect the electrical harness to the connectors in the lower bpillar area .
install the clips that attach the hv battery penthouse harness to hv battery fast charge contactor cover .
fasten the lower clips that attach the lower rear edge fo the lh wheel arch liner to the body .
fasten the clips that attach the harness to the hinge tray .
use a silicon roller to wet out the patch and set the adhesive . note perform a penthouse air leak test when indicated to do so .
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body under the rear portion of the floor duct .
install clips securing rh footwell assembly note 4x push clips
connect the electrical harness to the bpillar antenna connector .
install the hinge tray into the hinges , and then lower the hinge tray .
install the penthouse cover on the hv battery , and then handtighten the bolts . note different penthouse cover revisions have 28 , 18 , or 16 bolts .
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the lh lower bpillar areas .
position center display neck housing into vehicle
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the apillar and bpillar areas .
fasten the clips that attach the harness to the hinge tray and hinges .
torque the penthouse cover bolts in the sequence shown , and mark each with a green paint pen as they are torqued . 8 nm figure 11 . 28bolt penthouse cover torque sequence figure 12 . 18bolt penthouse cover torque sequence figure 13 . 16bolt penthouse cover torque sequence
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the lh body controller module area .
position center display into vehicle
install a new bolt to attach the electrical harness ground strap to the body in the passenger footwell area . 8 nm
install new bolts to attach the negative and positive busbars to the dc links and dc input .
before installing the charge port busbar connector to the hv header at the penthouse : clean the hv connector contact surface at the penthouse and the busbar hv connector contact surface of residual penetrox . apply 2 drops of penetrox to either side of the hole on both leads of the hv header . spread evenly to verify the contact surface is fully covered .
connect the electrical harness to the lh body controller module connectors .
connect center display note 1x connector
connect the electrical harness to the car computer connectors .
after installing the charge port busbar connector to the hv header at the penthouse , use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance between the charge port busbar lead and the penthouse hv header bolt head . also perform this test on the other lead and bolt head . note the acceptable resistance is between 0.050 mω and 0.195 mω . if the measured resistance is above 0.195 mω , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . note if the resistance is lower than 0.050 mω , reposition the probes and measure again . if after 4 attempts the resistance is consistently lower than 0.050 mω , the test has passed .
install a new bolt to attach the electrical harness ground strap to the body in the driver footwell area . 8 nm
install retaining clip to center display connector note 1x clip
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the car computer .
disconnect 12v power and perform the vehicle electrical isolation procedure . see 12v/lv power .
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body under the ip carrier area .
slide down neck housing and install bolts securing neck housing to center display note 2x bolts , t30 , 3 nm , number of fasteners on older vehicles may vary
install the electrical harness ground strap to the rh body controller module , and then install the nut that attaches the ground strap to the module . 9 nm
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance at the hv joint between the positive dc link busbar and the positive fast charge contactor busbar . note the maximum acceptable resistance is 0.040 mω . if the resistance is above this value , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . figure 2 . generic measurement actual busbars and fasteners might appear different
connect the electrical harness to the accelerator and the brake pedal connectors .
install center display to ip carrier note 2x patch bolts , 10mm , 16 nm , install new 10mm patch bolts , slide towards front of vehicle
connect the electrical harness to the rh body controller module connectors .
remove the lower clips that attach the lower rear edge of the lh wheel arch liner to the body , to allow access to the coolant hose .
install the carpet into the vehicle , and then fasten the clips that attach the front lh main cabin carpet to the body .
connect temperature sensor connector and install ip service panel into ip note 4x clips , 4x tabs , 1x connector
position a coolant drain under the rear rh side of the hv battery .
fasten the clips that attach the lh and rh sides of the rear main cabin carpet to the body .
connect steering column control module assembly connector note 1x connector , install new orange retaining clip to connector then install sccm connector , perform pushpullpush to make sure connector is seated properly
fold the carpet back from the lh side , and then fasten the clips that attach the carpet to the body .
disconnect the rear powertrain supply hose from the rh underside of the penthouse , plug the female fitting of the hose , and allow the battery to drain .
drain the coolant . see drain .
install sccm onto steering column
install the bpillar applique . see applique bpillar lh .
disconnect the battery to chiller hose at the lh side of the vehicle , plug the female fitting of the hose , and allow the battery to drain .
connect the coolant pressure test adapter to the hv battery .
connect the coolant pressure test adapter to the rh side male fitting under the penthouse .
connect the electrical harness to the antenna amplifier connector .
install bolt securing sccm to steering column note 1x bolt , 5mm allen , 9 nm
connect the coolant pressure test adapter to the battery to chiller hose male fitting .
connect the hose from the drive unit pressure test fixture to the coolant pressure test adapter .
disconnect the powertrain return hose at the rh side of the vehicle and plug the female connector .
fasten the clip that attaches the package tray electrical harness to the lh cpillar .
install lower shroud onto steering column
connect the electrical harness to the lh antenna amplifier connector .
close the regulator and both valves p1 and p2 on the test fixture .
attach the drain fitting adapter to the male connector , and position over the coolant drain .
connect the package tray speaker electrical harness to the tuner connectors , and then fasten the clip .
install lower screw securing lower shroud to steering column note 1x screw , t20 , 1.5 nm
connect the electrical harness to the package tray electrical harness connector and the tuner connectors .
connect a compressed air supply line .
disconnect the rear powertrain supply hose at the rh side of the vehicle and plug the male connector .
connect the package tray electrical harness to the rh body harness connector .
install upper screws securing lower shroud to steering column note 2x screws , t20 , 1.5 nm
set the pressure regulator of the test fixture to 50 psi .
open p1 .
attach the pressure fitting adapter to the female connector .
fasten the clips that attach the package tray electrical harness to the body in the upper cpillar area .
align the clips then press downward to install upper shroud onto lower shroud note 4x clips
install the rh lower bpillar trim . see trim bpillar lower lh .
position the coolant drain under the rear lh side of the hv battery .
set the pressure regulator to 50 psi .
make sure the valve on the pressure regulator is closed and the regulator is set to zero .
install the lh and rh rear cpillar trim . see trim cpillar rear lh .
align the steering wheel to steering column then position it for installation note the steering wheel and column are keyed
install the rh upper bpillar trim . see trim bpillar upper lh .
disconnect the hv battery return hose at the lh side of the vehicle , plug the male fitting of the hose , and allow the battery to drain .
disconnect the rear drive unit inverter inlet hose from the lh side of the hv battery , plug the female fitting of the hose , and allow the battery to drain .
attach the coolant pressure tester to the pressure fitting adapter .
install the rear rh sill panel trim . see trim sill panel rear lh .
connect the coolant drain adapter to the female fitting , and direct the tube to the coolant drain .
connect the coolant drain adapter to the lh side male fitting under the penthouse , and direct the tube to the coolant waste container .
disconnect the rear drive unit inverter inlet hose from the lh underside of the penthouse , plug the female fitting of the hose , and allow the battery to drain .
attach the compressed air line to the regulator and set the regulator to 20 psi .
install the 2nd row rh seat side bolster . see bolster side seat 2nd row lh .
if the coolant waste container is a bottle , push a shop towel partially into the bottle neck , to prevent coolant from splashing out .
open the valve on the drain fitting adapter .
slowly open the valve on the regulator and allow the coolant to drain .
close p2 when no more coolant is expelled . caution though not visible , there is still residual coolant in the platter enclosure cooling system . consider this fact when servicing the hv battery .
disconnect the coolant drain adapter , and then connect the coolant pressure test adapter plug to the hv battery .
close the valve on the regulator and disconnect the compressed air line from the regulator .
install the rh rear sill trim . see trim sill panel rear lh
open p2 again , and allow at least 110 seconds for the pressure to stabilize to 50 psi .
wait for 1 minute , and then close p1 .
disconnect the drain fitting adapter and pressure fitting adapter from the connectors .
install the lh upper bpillar trim . see trim bpillar upper lh .
wait for 1 minute , and then slowly open p1 .
perform the service procedures that required the hv battery coolant to be drained .
if the penthouse cover was removed as part of another procedure , inspect the coolant input and output tubes and fittings for leaks .
wait for 1 minute , and then close p1 and p2 .
disconnect the hv battery return hose at the lh side of the vehicle and plug the male connector .
install the lh bpillar applique . see applique bpillar lh .
install the 2nd row lh seat side bolster . see bolster side seat 2nd row lh .
move the coolant drain under the rear rh side of the hv battery .
attach the drain fitting adapter to the female connector , and position over the coolant drain .
perform a platter enclosure coolant leak test . see platter enclosure coolant leak test .
subtract the ending pressure from the starting pressure , and if : the difference is greater than 0.35 psi , check the hose , adapter , and plug fittings , close p2 and open p1 , check the regulator pressure , and then retest from step 17 . if the difference is still greater than 0.35 psi , escalate a toolbox session . the difference is less than 0.35 psi , continue the procedure .
interchange the coolant pressure test adapter and the coolant drain adapter on the male fittings under the penthouse , and direct the tube to the coolant waste container .
remove the plug from the male fitting , and connect the hv battery return hose .
slowly open p1 .
disconnect the battery to chiller hose at the lh side of the vehicle and plug the female connector .
install the rear lh sill panel trim . see trim sill panel rear lh .
insert a coolant fill tube into the battery to chiller hose male fitting .
attach the pressure fitting adapter to the male connector .
install the driver 's knee airbag . see airbag knee driver .
install the front passenger 's knee air bag . see airbag knee front passenger .
slowly pump coolant into the hv battery until it overflows .
remove the coolant pressure test adapter and coolant pressure test adapter plug from the hv battery , and the plugs from the hoses .
install the center console assembly . see center console .
remove the plug from the female fitting , and connect the battery to chiller hose .
connect the rear powertrain supply hose to the rh side of the hv battery , and the rear drive unit inverter inlet hose to the lh side of the hv battery .
install the driver and front passenger seats . see seat driver .
wait for 1 minute , and then close p1 , p2 , and the regulator . caution though not visible , there is still residual coolant in the power conversion system thermal block and input and output tubes . when servicing the power conversion system and input and output tubes , make sure not to spill any coolant , and to immediately wipe up any coolant that has spilled .
install the lower clips that attach the lower rear edge of the lh wheel arch liner to the body .
install the fasteners that attach the rear fascia to the rear corners of the body .
remove the coolant pressure test adapter and coolant drain adapter from the hv battery .
perform the service procedures that required the penthouse coolant to be drained .
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the hvac plenum duct area .
connect the electrical harness to the lh headlight connector .
install the front harness clips at the rh front frame rail . note number of clips may vary .
connect the electrical harness to the steering rack connectors and the connectors in the front lh frame rail area .
install the front harness clips for the two hvil harnesses at the bulkhead .
install new bolts to attach the electrical harness ground terminals to the body in the front lh frame rail area . 8 nm
connect the electrical harness to the hvil connectors in the bulkhead area .
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body in the front lh frame rail area .
connect the electrical harness to the abs unit connector .
connect the electrical harness to the brake booster connector .
install the front harness clips for the lh side repeater and camera harness .
connect the electrical harness to the connectors in the brake booster area .
connect the front harness connectors for the lh side repeater and camera .
install the 12v dc passthrough . see passthrough dcdc 12v .
fasten the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the body in the brake booster area .
install the clips that attach the front harness to the front of the lh wheel arch area .
fasten the lh halleffect sensor under the tab of the lh flood port cover .
move the lh side of the electrical harness in through the bulkhead .
connect the lh front wheel speed sensor connector .
install the clip that confines the lh halleffect sensor to the lh flood port cover above the lh flood port .
connect the electrical harness to the lh body controller module connector .
connect the lh front ride height sensor connector .
install the hv battery fast charge contactor into the penthouse . see contactor fast charge hv battery .
connect the inline electrical harness connector x909 , and then attach it to the lh body controller module .
install the front harness clips to the outer lh rail area .
install the hv battery dc input assembly . see dc input assembly hv battery .
install the power cable of the electrical harness to the lh body controller module , and then install a new nut to attach the power cable to the module . 8.5 nm
connect the front harness connector to the cfm .
use toolbox to put the vehicle into factory mode .
if the high voltage controller being installed was removed earlier , continue the procedure to install the penthouse cover . see cover penthouse . note do not return to this procedure .
move the rh side of the electrical harness in through the bulkhead .
connect the front harness connector to the lh acceleration sensor .
invoke diagnostics on the touchscreen .
release the clips that attach the coolant hose to the lh shear plate .
connect the electrical harness to the high voltage controller connector . note make sure not to pull up on the high voltage controller connector when connecting the electrical harness or anytime during in the following steps , as this might close the hvil loop , close the contactors , and cause the high voltage controller restore to fail .
install the power conversion system , perform a penthouse coolant leak test , and refill the coolant . see power conversion system .
connect the electrical harness to the car computer connectors .
connect the front harness connector to the lh front carrier harness .
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance at the hv joint between the negative dc input busbar and the negative fast charge contactor busbar . note the maximum acceptable resistance is 0.060 mω . if the resistance is above this value , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . figure 3 . generic measurement actual busbars and fasteners might appear different
use alcohol wipes to clean the top surface of the hv battery , and then allow to dry for 1 minute .
inspect the notifications for either a bms_a123 or a bms_w123 alert .
release the clips that attach the hoses to the rear hv battery skid plate
attach a 12v charger to the 12v auxiliary battery positive terminal and the 12v auxiliary battery negative cable . warning for model 3 heat pump vehicles , do not reconnect the first responder loop at this time .
install the hinge tray vertically onto the hinges , press down on the tray at each hinge so that the tray attaches to the hinges , and then lower the tray .
connect the harness connectors to the horns .
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance at the hv joint between the negative dc link busbar and the negative fast charge contactor busbar . note the maximum acceptable resistance is 0.060 mω . if the resistance is above this value , escalate a toolbox session , as appropriate . figure 4 . generic measurement actual busbars and fasteners might appear different
remove the bolts and clips that attach the skid plate to the battery , and then remove the plate from the battery . 13 nm
remove and discard the breather from the rh hv battery vent shroud assembly .
make sure that the logic connector cap is snug on the high voltage controller connector to prevent leaks .
measure 180 mm from the base of the base of the penthouse and apply masking tape to mark the location .
remove the penthouse hv and penthouse 12v caps .
remove and discard the hv battery perimeter seal . note when removing the platter perimeter seal , peel the seal to the side , at a 90° angle from the adhesive line . figure 1 . platter type figure 2 . penthouse type
if : either alert is present contact service engineering . do not perform this procedure . neither alert is present continue to the next step .
remove the lower bolts that attach the skid plate to the hv battery . 13 nm
fasten the clips that attach the hv battery penthouse harness to the hinge tray .
connect the inline electrical harness connector , and then attach it to the rh body controller module .
connect the front harness to the front end module harness .
disconnect the ptc heater hv electrical harness , and then remove the ptc heater hv electrical harness from the connector bracket .
install the leak test adapter plug into the rh shroud assembly .
place the nvh pad so that it is exactly centered between the raised portions of the hv battery top surface , and then apply masking tape to mark the location .
use ipa wipes to clean the adhesive and residue from the hv battery cover surface . tip : use a drill fitted with an adhesive eraser wheel to speed clean up .
exit diagnostics and restart the touchscreen .
remove the upper nut s that attach the skid plate to the hv battery . 13 nm
in toolbox , click autodiag , and type `` restore '' into the search field .
raise the rh body controller module into position , and install a new nut to attach the module to the apillar . 6 nm
install the front harness clips at the rear of the rh front wheel arch area for the side repeater and camera harness .
fasten the clips that attach the hv battery ac inlet harness cover to the power conversion system .
slide the release to unlock the front drive unit hv connector handle of the front drive unit to hv battery harness from the secured position .
disconnect the a/c compressor hv electrical harness , and then remove the a/c compressor hv electrical harness from the connector bracket .
remove and discard the breather from the lh hv battery vent shroud assembly .
make sure that the high voltage connectors along the rear of the hv battery are fully seated and securely latched .
install the nvh pads onto the top surface of the hv battery : starting from the end closest to the penthouse , slowly release the nvh pad backing and apply the nvh pad . caution make sure the nvh pad remains centered as it is installed . wet out the entire nvh pad with a sillicone roller . perform steps 4a and 4b on the remaining nvh pads .
release the clips that attach the low voltage electrical harness to the charge port to hv battery harness bracket at the penthouse .
install the penthouse perimeter seal onto the hv battery .
use toolbox to exit factory mode .
remove the upper bolts that attach the skid plate to the hv battery , and then remove the skid plate from the hv battery . 30 nm informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note some vehicles are equipped with selftapping bolts from the factory . if the vehicle is equipped with a bolt with a hexagonal indentation on the bolt head , the torque value is 64 nm .
click the arrow next to `` hvbms clone restore '' , and then click run network . note enter the id number that was recorded earlier .
install the power cables of the electrical harness to the rh body controller module , and then install the new nuts to attach the power cables to the module . 8.5 nm
install the front wheel speed sensor harness clips at the front of the rh front wheel arch .
connect the hv battery ac inlet harness to the power conversion system connector .
fully raise the handle on the front drive unit hv connector .
position a coolant drain under the lh front of the hv battery .
install the leak test adapter into the lh shroud assembly .
remove the masking tape from the top surface of the hv battery .
remove the bolts that attach the charge port to hv battery harness bracket at the penthouse , and then remove the bracket from the vehicle . 10 nm
install the hv battery . see hv battery .
in toolbox , perform a firmware redeploy using the odin routine update_serviceredeploy . note the firmware redeploy will fail , however communication with the hvp should be enabled . note check the firmware for a string like updt0 16:08:47.618 : :update 0000 succeeded , st success which confirms that the hvbms is updated .
install the penthouse cover and connect 12v power . see cover penthouse .
connect the electrical harness to the rh body controller module connector .
connect the front harness connectors for the rh side repeater and camera .
connect the electrical harness to the hv battery fast charge contactor connector .
remove the front drive unit hv connector from the front drive unit hv header .
release the clip , disconnect the hv battery rh supply manifold from the hv battery lh supply manifold , and then immediately plug the male and female fittings .
connect the pack enclosure leak tester to the leak test adapter in the lh hv battery shroud assembly .
remove the penthouse hv cap . see cap hv penthouse .
slide the release to unlock the dc input connector handle of the charge port to hv battery harness from the secured position .
install the hvac plenum inner duct to the body , and then install the fasteners that attach the inner duct to the body .
connect the rh front wheel speed sensor connector .
release the clips that attach the ptc heater and a/c compressor electrical harness bracket to the front of the hv battery , and then separate the bracket from the battery .
click the arrow next to `` hvp clone restore '' , and then click run network . note enter the id number that was recorded earlier .
install the hvac plenum outer duct onto the hvac plenum inner duct , and then fasten the clips that attach the outer duct to the inner duct .
install the front harness clips to the outer side of the rh rail .
release the fir tree clips that attach the coolant hoses to the rh shear plate .
continue the procedure to install the penthouse cover . see cover penthouse .
connect the front harness connector to the rh acceleration sensor .
install the power conversion system coolant output tube . see tube output coolant power conversion system . caution make sure that the coolant output tube is securely connected by firmly pressing down on the fittings , verify that both clips have fully engaged the barb on the power conversion system and battery flange , and then pull up on the fittings to check retention .
set the regulator to 0.15 psi .
if the charge port to hv battery harness has a 3phase connector , continue to the next step , otherwise skip to step 13 .
put on personal protective equipment . warning hv insulating gloves and leather glove protectors must be worn when exposed to the interior of the hv battery .
in toolbox , perform a firmware redeploy for a second time using the odin routine update_serviceredeploy .
install the front body controller module to the body , and then install the bolt that attaches the ground strap to the lower rear of the module . 9 nm
install the front harness clip to the rh front fascia mounting bracket , and then connect the front fascia harness connector .
position the coolant drain under the rh rear of the hv battery .
open the outlet valve , and allow at least 45 seconds for the pressure to stabilize to 0.15 psi .
remove the nuts that attach the lh vent assembly to the hv battery , and then remove the vent assembly from the battery .
remove the nuts that attach the rh vent assembly to the hv battery , and then remove the vent assembly from the battery .
disconnect the 12v charger from the 12v auxiliary battery positive terminal and the 12v auxiliary battery negative cable .
install the ground strap to the lower right side of the front body controller module , and then install the bolt that attaches the ground strap to the module 9 nm
install the lower bolt that attaches the windshield washer reservoir to the body .
install bolt securing steering wheel to steering column note 1x patch bolt , 10mm hex , 80 nm , install new patch bolt
release the clip , and then disconnect the rh inner hv battery return hose fitting from the rh end of the hv battery platter enclosure .
connect steering wheel connector note 1x connector
quickly plug both the male and female fittings .
install the lh vent assembly to the hv battery , and then install the nuts that attach the vent assembly to the battery . 10 nm
install the rh vent assembly to the hv battery , and then install the nuts that attach the vent assembly to the battery . 10 nm
install the lower busbar onto the stud , and then fasten the clips that attach the bottom of the front body controller module to the body .
connect driver air bag connector note 1x connector , make sure that the driver air bag harness doesn ’ t get caught between the driver air bag and the horn mechanism
subtract the ending pressure from the starting pressure , and if : the difference is greater than 0.0054 psi , check the hose , adapter , and plug fittings , close the outlet valve and open the inlet valve , check the regulator pressure , and then retest from step 10 . if the difference is still greater than 0.0054 psi , escalate a toolbox session . the difference is 0.0054 psi or less , continue the procedure .
if the charge port to hv battery harness has a 3phase connector , continue to the next step , otherwise skip to step 17 .
release the clip that attaches the wiring harness to the lh lower cpillar .
perform an hv battery air leak test . see hv battery air leak test .
install the bolts that attach the front body controller module to the body . 10 nm 10 nm
secure driver air bag assembly to steering wheel and verify it is fully engaged note 3x datums , 1x spring clip , inspect to make sure lower horn bracket is properly secured to steering wheel before installing driver air bag
remove the nuts that attach the rear drive unit hv electrical harness bracket to the hv battery .
slide the release to unlock the 3phase connector handle of the charge port to hv battery harness from the secured position .
install the charge port dummy plug onto the dc input header .
if the replacement vent assembly is without a breather valve , install one now . see breathers hv battery .
if the new vent assembly does not have a breather valve preinstalled , install one now . see breathers hv battery .
connect the logic connectors and the steering gear assembly conectors .
install main decor assembly note 15x clips , 1x center clip
open the inlet valve , and then disconnect the pack enclosure leak tester from the leak test adapter in the lh hv battery shroud assembly .
if configured for 3phase input , install the ancilary dummy plug onto the 3phase header .
fasten the fir tree clips that attach the coolant hoses to the lh shear plate .
fasten the fir tree clips that attach the coolant hoses to the rh shear plate .
connect the main front harness to the front body controller module connectors .
connect the lh headlight connector .
install the lh footwell duct into hvac module note 1x push clip
remove the leak test adapter from the lh hv battery shroud assembly , and then install a new breather into the lh shroud assembly .
install the inverter leak test plug into the high voltage controller connector .
install the bolts that attach the lh front harness ground terminals to the vehicle .
connect the driver knee air bag and install into vehicle note 1x connector , use caution not to damage the connector/harness , support the knee air bag while connecting the connector
remove the leak test adapter plug from the rh hv battery shroud assembly , and then install a new breather into the rh shroud assembly .
release the clip that attaches the charge port to hv battery wiring harness to the lh lower cpillar .
remove and discard the breather from the penthouse probe lid cover .
install the front body controller module cover to the front body controller module , and then install the bolts that attach the cover to the module . 6 nm
install fasteners securing driver knee air bag to vehicle note 4x patch bolts , e10 , 8 nm , install new patch bolts , 2x screws , t20 , 2 nm , 1x push clip , if vehicle equipped with t30 bolts , update to e10
install the charge port dummy plug onto the dc input assembly .
install the leak test plug into the penthouse probe lid cover .
remove the tape from the windshield heater harness , install the windshield harness connector to the body , and then connect the windshield heater harness .
install connectors to lh footwell cover and position for installation , securing front tabs to driver air bag assembly note 3x tabs , 1x ethernet connector , 1x puddle light connector
slide the release to unlock the hv battery front drive unit connector handle of the front drive unit to hv battery harness from the secured position .
if the charge port to hv battery harness has a 3phase connector , install a dummy plug to the 3phase header .
install the frunk harness connector to the lh body controller .
install screw and clips securing lh footwell cover note 1x screw , t20 , 2.5 nm , 2x push clips
fully raise the handle on the hv battery front drive unit connector .
remove and discard the breather plug from the penthouse probe lid cover .
install the clip that attaches the inline electrical harness connector to the lh body controller module , and then connect the electrical connector .
install rh upper apillar trim note 3x clips , 1x tether , replace tether if removed from body side , slide the lower portion in position , install tether 3x retainer hooks to housing , then align the upper 3x clips , press clip from top to bottom , make sure double check the middle clips are fully seated
remove the hv battery front drive unit connector from the hv battery header .
release the clips that attach the ptc heater and a/c compressor electrical harness cover to the rear of the hv battery .
install the leak test adapter into the penthouse probe lid cover .
install the second leak test plug into the rh shroud assembly .
install the nut that attaches the power cable of the electrical harness to the lh body controller .
install rh lower apillar trim note 1x clip , 2 guide tabs , align the 2 front tabs then align the slot with harness bracket and then push rear clip to secure to lower bpillar
with an assistant , remove the bolts that attach the center rail ski to the hv battery .
connect the pack enclosure leak tester to the leak test adapter .
connect the rh front harness connectors to the car computer .
install clip for rh lower apillar trim note 1x push clip
remove the center rail ski from the vehicle .
close both valves on the pack enclosure leak tester by turning valve knobs to a vertical position .
install the leak test adapter into the lh shroud assembly .
install the wiper motor assembly . see wiper module .
connect the lh front harness connector to the car computer .
install rh mid apillar assembly note 1x clip , 1x tab , align the bottom tab then push the top clip to fully seat mid apillar , make sure the seal seat on top of the trim
remove the cap cover at the front of the hv battery center rail ski .
connect the pack enclosure leak tester to air supply . note make sure the pack enclosure leak tester valves are both in the closed position .
install the nut that attaches the 12v battery rear hook tie down .
connect the front connectors to the car computer . note vehicles with ecall system have 4 connectors , vehicles without ecall system have 3 connectors .
install rh air wave bezel cap to main decor assembly note 2x clips
in toolbox , click in the search field , and then click tools .
identify the vehicle soc . if the soc is less than the specified values , proceed with removal . see remove . if the soc is greater than the specified values , lower all of the vehicle windows and turn on the climate control system to maximum defrost . this setting will discharge the battery by approximately 10 % soc every hour .
remove the cap cover at the rear of the hv battery center rail ski .
remove the foam cover from the lh side of the penthouse .
remove and discard the 5lobe bolts that attach the hv probe cover to the penthouse cover , and then remove the hv probe cover from the penthouse cover .
turn the inlet valve to the open position by turning the valve knob to a horizonal position .
position the front controller module for installation .
install rh ip end cap note 3x clips
from the tools menu , click active alerts .
move the vehicle to a location where it can safely continue to discharge the battery unattended .
remove the ptc heater and a/c compressor electrical harnesses from the sides of the hv battery center rail ski .
use an ipa wipe to clean the hv probe cover gasket surface , and the mating surface of the penthouse cover .
open all doors . note latch the rear doors to prevent accidental lockout .
remove and discard the hv battery breather from the lh hv battery vent shroud assembly .
set the pack enclosure leak tester to 0.15 psi .
install the rh instrument panel end cap . see end cap instrument panel lh
install the front harness cover to the rear of the front body controller .
install lh upper apillar trim note 3x clips , 1x tether , replace tether if removed from body side , slide the lower portion in position , install tether 3x retainer hooks to housing , then align the upper 3x clips , press clip from top to bottom , make sure double check the middle clips are fully seated
install the lh and rh tail light assemblies . see taillight lh .
remove the carpet from the underhood storage unit .
release the clips that attach the trunk carpet to the sill .
click read alerts and check for a bms_a123 , bms_a151 , or a bms_a035 alert .
remove the front passenger seat . see seat driver .
identify the vehicle soc every halfhour .
install the ptc heater and a/c compressor electrical harness into the sides of the hv battery center rail ski .
visually inspect the condition of the hv probe cover gasket and the penthouse cover mating surface for cracks , cuts , gouges , abrasions , or any damage that could affect the seal . note if there is any damage to the hv probe cover gasket , replace the gasket . if there is minor damage to the penthouse cover mating surface that might affect the seal , perform a penthouse air leak test when instructed to do so .
open the outlet valve to inject air into the penthouse , and allow 60 seconds for the pressure to stabilize to 0.15 psi .
set the regulator to 0.15 psi .
install the bolt that attaches the ground strap to the lower rear of the front body controller module .
install lh lower apillar trim note 1x clip , 2 guide tabs , align the 2 front tabs then align the slot with harness bracket and then push rear clip to secure to lower bpillar , fully seat seal along trim
install the subwoofer . see subwoofer .
remove the hv battery ptc heater and a/c compressor connector from the ptc heater and a/c compressor header .
install the carpet into the underhood storage unit .
if : any of the alerts are present investigate and correct the low isolation condition before continuing with this procedure . none of the alerts are present continue to the next step .
fully lower all windows .
when the soc is below 50 % for land transport , or below 30 % for air transport , turn off the climate control system , raise the windows , and then move the vehicle to the service bay .
install the cap cover at the rear of the hv battery center rail ski .
remove the center 2nd row buckle . see buckle 2nd row center .
install the hv probe cover onto the penthouse cover , install new 5lobe bolts to attach the hv probe cover to the penthouse cover , and then mark the bolts with a paint pen after they are torqued . 6 nm
remove and discard the hv battery breather from the rh hv battery vent shroud assembly .
close the inlet valve and wait 45 seconds for pressure to settle .
install the lh footwell cover . see cover footwell driver .
install the bolt that attaches the ground strap to the lower right side of the front body controller module .
install clip for lh lower apillar trim note 1x push clip
install the rh side rear trunk trim . see trim side trunk rh .
remove the rh 2nd row seat back . see seat back 2nd row rh .
release the clips that attach the rh front carpet to the body , and then remove the rh front carpet from the vehicle .
install the cap cover at the front of the hv battery center rail ski .
remove the bolts that attach the penthouse rails to the body and penthouse cover , and then remove the rails from the vehicle .
if minor damage was found on the mating surface of the penthouse cover , perform a penthouse air leak test when appropriate . see penthouse air leak test . note if the penthouse cover is going to be removed , delay the penthouse air leak test until the penthouse cover is installed .
use an ipa wipe to clean the holes where the breathers will install .
record value of starting pressure .
remove the plugs and reconnect these hoses : powertrain return hose powertrain supply hose hv battery return hose battery to chiller hose
install the bolt that attaches the ground strap to the upper rear of the front body controller module .
install lh mid apillar assembly note 1x clip , 1x tab , align the bottom tab then push the top clip to fully seat mid apillar , pull seal over trim
install the lh side rear trunk trim . see trim side trunk lh .
with an assistant , remove the bolts that attach the center rail ski to the hv battery .
release the clips that attach the trunk carpet to the 2nd row area .
remove the 2nd row floor mat from the vehicle .
install the rh front carpet into the vehicle , and then fasten the clips that attach the rh front carpet to the body .
with an assistant , install the center rail ski to the hv battery .
if the penthouse cover is to be replaced with a new cover , turn the adjustable elements clockwise to remove them from the penthouse cover .
move the driver seat fully rearwards .
install a new hv battery breather into the lh hv battery vent shroud assembly . note press at the center of the breather , and then press at 3 points forming a triangle pattern on the breather , to make sure that the hv battery breather is fully seated .
wait 60 seconds to test pressure and record value of ending pressure .
fasten the clips that attach the hv battery to chiller hose to the body .
install the main instrument panel decor . see decor trim instrument panel main .
slide the busbar onto the lower stud and attach the lower harness clips to the bottom of the front body controller module .
install lh air wave bezel cap to main decor assembly note 2x clips
install the floor rear trunk trim . see trim floor trunk .
lift the trunk carpet off the isofix bars .
install the bolts that attach the center rail ski to the hv battery . 35 nm 32 nm
remove and discard the bolts that attach the high voltage controller internally to the penthouse cover . figure 1 . 5bolt hvc penthouse cover figure 2 . 4bolt hvc penthouse cover figure 3 . 3bolt hvc penthouse cover
apply sideways pressure on the hv battery breather at several locations to verify that it is attach in the lh hv battery vent shroud .
subtract the ending pressure from the starting pressure , and if : the difference is greater than 0.0231 psi , check the hose , adapter , and plug fittings , close the outlet valve and open the inlet valve , check the pack enclosure leak tester pressure , and then retest from step 27 . if the difference is still greater than 0.0231 psi , further investigate possible causes for the pressure leak , starting with toolbox article 41588 . if the cause for the pressure leak can still not be found and resolved , escalate a toolbox session . the difference is 0.0231 psi or less , continue the procedure .
subtract the ending pressure from the starting pressure , and if : the difference is greater than 0.0054 psi , check the hose , adapter , and plug fittings , close the outlet valve and open the inlet valve , check the regulator pressure , and then retest from step 28 . if the difference is still greater than 0.0054 psi , escalate a toolbox session . the difference is 0.0054 psi or less , continue the procedure .
install the components that were removed to drain the coolant . see install .
install the front passenger knee airbag . see airbag knee front passenger
install the bolts that attach the front body controller module to the body .
install lh ip end cap note 3x clips
install the lh and rh trunk stops .
release the clips that attach the trunk carpet to the body studs , and then remove the trunk carpet from the vehicle .
release the clips that attach the hv battery coolant hoses to the lh shear plate .
fasten the clips that attach the ptc heater and a/c compressor electrical harness cover to the rear of the hv battery .
release the cover on the positive 12v output cable , at the dcdc passthrough .
install the nuts and bolt that attach the power and ground cables to the front body controller module .
install center console into vehicle note recommend assistance , tilt front of console downward , slide assembly towards front of vehicle and tilt rear of console down into place
release the clips that attach the hv battery coolant hoses to the rh shear plate .
install a new hv battery breather into the rh hv battery vent shroud assembly . note press at the center of the breather , and then press at 3 points forming a triangle pattern on the breather , to make sure that the hv battery breather is fully seated .
disconnect the pack enclosure leak tester from the leak test adapter .
fasten the clips that attach the footrest .
install the main front harness connectors to the front body controller module .
connect usb harness at right front of center console note 1x usb connector
remove the hv battery to front drive unit harness from the center of the hv battery center rail ski .
use a 90° pick to permanently bend open the tabs of the lh 1st generation flood port retainer ring . note it is acceptable if the tabs break off .
remove the lh 2nd generation flood port from the lh underside of the hv battery penthouse . note twist the flood port while pulling down .
fully loosen and remove the bolts that attach the penthouse cover to the hv battery . note different penthouse cover revisions have 28 , 18 , or 16 bolts .
apply sideways pressure on the hv battery breather at several locations to verify that it is attach in the rh hv battery vent shroud .
remove the leak test adapter from the penthouse probe lid cover .
with an assistant , move the vehicle to the lift . caution the vehicle is safely pushed for only a very short distance and at a very slow speed .
install the bolts that attach the front body controller module cover to the front body controller module .
connect harness to rear of center console note 1x connector
pull the retainer ring of the lh flood port down and off . tip : twist the retainer ring as it is pulled down .
repeat step 11 to remove the rh 2nd generation flood port from the rh underside of the hv battery penthouse .
remove the lh front floor mat .
install a new breather plug onto the penthouse probe lid cover .
remove the leak test plug from the rh hv battery shroud assembly , and then install a new breather into the rh shroud assembly .
connect the thermal harness connector to the front body controller module .
install rh front exterior hardware to center console note 2x bolts , 10mm , 7 nm
rotate the lh flood port core 60° and pull it down and out of the underside of the hv battery penthouse .
remove the lh and rh lower apillar trims . see trim apillar lower lh .
use an ipa wipe to clean the area around the openings where the flood ports were removed .
remove the penthouse cover from the vehicle .
if installed , remove the dummy plug from the 3phase header .
refill the system with coolant . see refill .
move the rear subframe portion of the electrical harness in through the lh side trunk bulkhead , and then fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the body . note the lh body harness passes through the trunk near the rear section of the rear lh wheel liner area .
install the clip that attaches the suction/liquid lines to the body near the txv .
install rh console side panel carpet note 1 tab , 12x clips , position side panel and align the front tab . push the console panel from the front towards the rear
install the hv battery to front drive unit harness into the center of the hv battery center rail ski .
repeat step 11 through step 13 for the rh 1st generation flood port .
install a 2nd generation flood port into the opening at the lh underside of the hv battery penthouse . note press up firmly to fully seat the flood port and fasten the clips internally .
reinstall the logic connector cap onto the high voltage controller connector .
move the front passenger seat fully rearwards .
remove the charge port dummy plug from the dc input assembly .
remove the leak test plug from the penthouse probe lid cover .
connect the electrical harness to the rear subframe electrical harness connector and the lh electric parking brake connector .
install the bolt that attaches the thermal harness cover to the front body controller module .
install rh front floor mat
repeat step 2 to install a 2nd generation flood port into the rh underside of the hv battery penthouse .
visually inspect the interior of the penthouse for any presence of leaked coolant . note areas of interest are the coolant input and output tubes and fittings , and around the perimeter of the penthouse . caution if any leaked coolant is found , escalate a toolbox session .
install a new breather into the penthouse probe lid cover .
connect the electrical harness to the rear bluetooth passive entry antenna connector .
install lh front exterior hardware to center console note 2x bolts , 10mm , 7 nm
remove the lh and rh rear sill panel trims . see trim sill panel rear lh .
fasten the clips that attach the hv battery coolant hoses to the rh shear plate .
remove the inverter leak test plug from the high voltage controller connector .
install the clips that attach the lh body harness to the body in the rear fascia and rear subframe areas .
close the front lh and front rh doors .
connect the rh headlight connector .
install lh console side panel carpet note 1 tab , 12x clips , position side panel and align the front tab . push the console panel from the front towards the rear
repeat step 16 for the rh underside of the hv battery penthouse
while wearing suitable gloves , spread the bottom of the lh upper bpillar trim open , and then release the clips that attach the bottom of the trim to the lh lower bpillar trim after setting aside the lh upper bpillar trim , repeat this step on the rh upper bpillar trim . caution be careful not to pull the upper bpillar trim too far , otherwise it might break the seat belt shoulder adjustment mechanism . note move the body seals to aid removal .
fasten the clips that attach the hv battery coolant hoses to the lh shear plate .
visually inspect the condition of the penthouse cover gasket and the hv battery mating surface for cracks , cuts , gouges , abrasions , or any damage that could affect the seal . note if the damage to the gasket is severe , replace the penthouse cover . if there is minor damage that might affect the seal , perform a penthouse air leak test when instructed to do so .
if installed , remove the ancilary dummy plug from the 3phase header .
install the rear fascia assembly . see fascia rear .
install lh front floor mat
install the bolts that attach the center rail ski to the hv battery . 35 nm 32 nm
remove the lh and rh lower bpillar trims . see trim bpillar lower lh .
check that the hv connections at the rear of the hv battery are tight and secure .
remove the front passenger footwell cover . see cover footwell passenger .
remove the charge port dummy plug from the dc input header .
fasten the clips that attach the hv battery coolant hoses to the lh shear plate .
remove the clips and release the hook and loop strips that attach the rear carpet to the body .
if the aluminum tape retrofit patch is damaged , remove it , clean the area with an ipa wipe , apply another patch of aluminum tape , and wet out the patch with a silicone roller to set the adhesive . figure 4 . 5bolt to 4bolt patch 50mm x 50mm figure 5 . 4bolt to 3bolt patch 30mm x 30mm
install the lh and rh trunk side trims . see trim side trunk lh .
remove the rear carpet from the vehicle .
if the charge port to hv battery harness has a 3phase connector , continue to the next step , otherwise skip to step 49 .
use both hands to firmly connect the dc input connector of the charge port to hv battery harness to the penthouse dc input header . caution make sure that the connector fits the header squarely and tightly .
install the trunk carpet into the trunk , and then fasten the clips that attach the trunk carpet to the body .
fully raise the handle on the 3phase connector of the charge port to hv battery harness .
fasten the trunk carpet clips to the body studs under the 2nd row seat cushion .
install the 2nd row rh seat back assembly . see seat back 2nd row rh .
torque the penthouse cover bolts in the sequence shown , and mark each with a green paint pen as they are torqued . 8 nm caution use an external torx e10 5lobe socket that is not magnetized . sockets with magnets will not fully grip and can possibly strip the bolt head . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : external torx e10 5lobe 4 in extension ratchet/torque wrench figure 6 . 28bolt penthouse cover torque sequence figure 7 . 18bolt penthouse cover torque sequence figure 8 . 16bolt penthouse cover torque sequence
verify that the connector is fully seated , and compare both sides of the connector , that it is properly latched in place . note an improperly seated connector might lead to connector damage and charging problems later on .
install the 2nd row lh seat back assembly . see seat back 2nd row lh .
remove the plugs from the male and female fittings , quickly connect the rh inner hv battery return hose to the hv battery platter enclosure , and then fasten the clip .
connect the positive 12v output cable to the dcdc passthrough , install a new nut to attach the cable , and mark the nut with a pink/violet paint pen after torque . 9 nm caution make sure that the rubber boot is not trapped under the cable lug or pinched between the cable lug and nut .
install the sill rear trunk trim . see trim sill trunk .
if removed , replace the cover on the positive 12v output cable at the dcdc passthrough , and then press down to attach the cover .
remove the rh rear sill panel trim . see trim sill panel rear lh .
install and handtighten new bolts that attach the high voltage controller internally to the penthouse cover . figure 9 . 5bolt hvc penthouse cover figure 10 . 4bolt hvc penthouse cover figure 11 . 3bolt hvc penthouse cover
torque the high voltage controller to penthouse cover bolts in the sequence shown , and mark each bolt with an orange paint pen as they are torqued . 5 nm +30 deg caution insufficient torque of bolts 1 and 2 opens the high voltage interlock loop circuit . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : external torx e10 4 in extension ratchet/torque wrench torque wrench with angle measurement figure 12 . 5bolt hvc penthouse cover figure 13 . 4bolt hvc penthouse cover figure 14 . 3bolt hvc penthouse cover
if damage was found on the penthouse cover gasket or the hv battery mating surface , or if the aluminum tape retrofit patch was replaced , or if another procedure instructed to perform a penthouse air leak test , do that now . see penthouse air leak test .
install rh rear exterior hardware to center console note 1x bolt , 10mm , 7 nm
install and handtighten the adjustable elements on the penthouse cover counterclockwise so that they are fully engaged . caution handtighten only .
install lh rear exterior hardware to center console note 1x bolt , 10mm , 7 nm
install the penthouse rails to the body and penthouse cover , but do not install the bolts at this time .
install console lower rear panel note 5x clips
install the center 2nd row buckle . see buckle 2nd row center .
install the center 2nd row seat belt anchor under the lh 2nd row buckle . see buckle 2nd row lh . caution position the center 2nd row seatbelt anchor underneath the lh 2nd row buckle , the guide pin aligned , and then install a new patch bolt to attach the anchor and buckle together to the vehicle .
push vehicle onto lift note recommend assistance , note this vehicle can only be safely pushed for a very short distance and at very slow speed
install and handtighten the bolts that attach the rails to the penthouse cover and body .
press and hold park button to release epb service mode note remove wheel chocks if necessary
move the driver seat and the front passenger seat fully forward . informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note note the position of the driver seat and the front passenger seat prior to movement so that both seats are restored to their original position during installation .
remove the rh 2nd row seat back . see seat back 2nd row rh .
torque the bolts to specification . 24 nm 24 nm 24 nm
release the clips that attach the trunk sill trim to the body . tip : pull the corner of the trunk sill trim upwards to release the corner clip , and then release the remaining clips .
if equipped with a foam block , use a retractable blade knife to remove the foam block from the underside of the tether anchor flip door . warning wear cutresistant gloves when performing this step .
remove the rh side trunk carpet clips from the body studs located under the 2nd row seat cushion .
inspect the lh side of the trunk carpet , under the lh 2nd row seat back . if the frontmost edge of the carpet is mounted on body studs , the lh 2nd row seat back must be removed . skip to step 3 . if the frontmost edge of the carpet is not mounted to datums , skip to step 6 . figure 1 . figure a figure 2 . figure b ; seat back removed for clarity
remove the trunk sill trim from the vehicle .
use diagonal cutters to remove the retaining clips that attach the tether anchor flip door to the package tray trim . warning wear eye protection and cutresistant gloves when performing this step .
raise the trunk carpet over the isofix bars on the rh side .
align the trunk latch with the slot in the trunk sill trim , align the long tabs with the slots on the trunk lid , and then press down on the trim to attach all remaining clips and tabs . note make sure that the trunk seal overlaps the trunk sill trim .
remove the underhood storage unit carpet .
remove the tether anchor flip door .
release the clips that attach the lh front carpet to the body .
working in the 2nd row area , release the clips that attach the lh side of the trunk carpet .
remove the bolts that attach the underhood storage unit to the vehicle . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket ¼ in std ratchet 2 in extension
place the new tether anchor flip door onto the package tray so that the standoffs are aligned .
release the clips that attach the driver footrest to the body , and then remove the lh front carpet from the vehicle .
lift the lh side of the trunk carpet off of the isofix bars .
if the same underhood storage unit is being reinstalled , skip to step 8 . otherwise , go to the next step if the underhood storage unit is being replaced with a new one .
install new retaining clips to attach the tether anchor to the package tray trim . tip : use a 7 mm socket to push down and secure the retaining clips .
release the clips that attach the puddle light to the rh trunk side trim , disconnect the electrical harness from the puddle light electrical connector , and then remove the puddle light from the vehicle .
install the lh front carpet into the vehicle and fasten the clips that attach the driver footrest to the body .
remove the tow hook from the underhood storage unit .
if the tether anchor flip door had a foam block , use a glue gun to apply glue to the areas shown and then install the foam block . allow the glue to fully dry before continuining .
remove the push clips that attach the rh trunk side trim to the body , and remove the side trim from the vehicle .
fasten the clips that attach the lh front carpet to the body .
release the clips that attach the underhood storage unit to the vehicle , and then remove the underhood storage unit from the vehicle . note replace any broken or missing clips , if reinstalling the same underhood storage unit .
remove the reinforcement clips that are attached to the underhood storage unit , if replacing the underhood storage unit with a new one .
release the push clips that attach the lh trunk side trim to the vehicle .
release the clips that attach the package tray wiring harness to the cpillar .
install the reinforcement clips that are attached to the underhood storage unit , if installing a new underhood storage unit . otherwise , skip to the next step if reusing the underhood storage unit .
disconnect the package tray harness connector from the rh body electrical harness .
install the clips that attach the underhood storage unit to the vehicle . note make sure that all clips for the underhood storage unit are engaged .
remove the lh trunk side trim from the vehicle .
release the clip that attaches the speaker wiring harness to the tuner .
install the tow hook on the underhood storage unit .
connect the electrical connector to the puddle lamp .
disconnect the speaker harness connector from the tuner .
install the bolts that attach the underhood storage unit to the vehicle . 5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket ¼ in std ratchet 2 in extension
install the push clips that attach the lh trunk side trim to the vehicle .
release the clip that attaches the antenna amplifier wiring harness to the body .
use a torch light to inspect the inside of the hood latch housing for any foreign object that may have dropped in . if any object is found , remove it and confirm that the hood latch is operating as intended .
disconnect the electrical connector from the antenna amplifier .
install the underhood storage unit carpet .
install the hood latch cover . see cover hood latch . caution prior to installation of the hood latch cover , inspect the clips that attach the cover to the vehicle body for any damage . if damage is found or when any clip is dislodged or missing , replace the hood latch cover with a new one since the hood latch panel clips are non serviceable parts .
release the tabs that attach the package tray trim to the body , and then slide the package tray forward to remove it from the vehicle .
install the lh side of the trunk carpet on the isofix bars and if necessary , install the carpet clips on the body studs .
install the package tray trim to the vehicle . note slide the package tray rearwards to install it to the vehicle , and then attach the package tray to the body with tabs .
if necessary , install the lh 2nd row seat back . see seat back 2nd row lh .
install the clips that attach the package tray trim to the body .
connect the electrical connector to the antenna amplifier .
install the clip that attaches the antenna amplifier wiring harness to the body .
connect the speaker harness connector to the tuner .
attach the thermal harness ground to the fron harness bundle .
install the bolt that attaches the front harness test junction near the rh front frame rail .
connect txv valve harness connector .
install the electromechanical brake booster . see booster brake electromechanical .
connect the frunk connector to the rh body controller .
connect the black connector at the rh body controler , and then attach the connector to the body controller .
install the new nyloc nut that attaches the dcdc positive cables to the rh body controller .
verify that the hv battery ptc heater and a/c compressor connector is fully seated , and compare both sides of the connector that it is properly secured in place . note an improperly seated connector might lead to connector damage and ptc heater or a/c compressor problems later on .
if the charge port to hv battery harness has a 3phase connector , continue to the next step , otherwise skip to step 53 .
install the new nyloc nut that attaches the positive battery cable to the rh body controller .
install the pedal asembly to the vehicle . see brake pedal .
fasten the clips that attach the rh inner hv battery return hose to the hv battery .
fasten the clip that attaches the charge port to hv battery wiring harness to the lh lower cpillar .
use both hands to firmly connect the 3phase connector of the charge port to hv battery harness to the penthouse 3phase header . caution make sure that the connector fits the header squarely and tightly .
install the hvac plenum inner duct . duct hvac plenum inner .
install the charge port to hv battery wiring harness bracket to the penthouse , and then install the bolts that attach the bracket to the penthouse . 10 nm
remove the clips and hookandloop strips that attach the rear carpet to the vehicle . note the number of clips on newer vehicles might vary .
position the coolant drain under the lh front of the hv battery .
repeat step 23 through step 26 for the lh side of the vehicle .
install the wiper module . see wiper module .
lift up the rh side of the rear carpet and insert a hand to feel if the 4th rh hv battery bolt is present . if the bolt is present , then remove the bolt .
install the ptc heater and a/c compressor electrical harness bracket to the front of the hv battery , and then fasten the clips that attach the bracket to the hv battery .
install the 12v/lv battery . see 12v/lv battery .
lift up the lh side of the rear carpet and insert a hand to feel if the 4th lh hv battery bolt is present . if the bolt is present , then remove the bolt .
remove the plugs from the hv battery rh supply manifold and the hv battery lh supply manifold , immediately connect the male and female fittings , and then fasten the clip .
connect 12 v power . see 12v/lv power .
fasten the clip that attaches the charge port to hv battery wiring harness to the lh lower cpillar .
install the a/c hv electrical harness into the connector bracket , and then connect the a/c hv electrical harness .
install the penthouse hv and penthouse 12v caps .
install the charge port to hv battery wiring harness bracket to the penthouse , and then install the bolts that attach the bracket to the penthouse . 10 nm
install the harness clips to the car computer mounting clips , and then install the harness to the car computer .
remove the clips that attach the lh front carpet to the vehicle .
install the ptc heater hv electrical harness into the connector bracket , and then connect the ptc heater hv electrical harness .
fasten the clips that attach the low voltage electrical harness to the charge port to hv battery harness bracket at the penthouse .
install the clips that attach the lh air wave duct .
fully raise the handle on the hv battery front drive unit connector of the front drive unit to hv battery harness .
fold the lh front carpet for access , and then release the seat harness from the clip to allow the carpet to fold back further . note the driver footrest is part of the lh front carpet .
install the lh footwell vent duct . see duct footwell lh .
install the hv connector special tool onto the hv battery front drive unit connector .
remove the lh front inner hv battery bolts .
install the lh center console side panel carpet .
use both hands to firmly connect the hv battery front drive unit connector of the front drive unit to hv battery harness to the hv battery header . caution make sure that the connector fits the header squarely and tightly , and that both retention pins enter the handle .
check to see if the 3rd lh inner hv battery bolt is present . if the bolt is present , remove the bolt .
install the glove box . see glove box without knee airbags .
remove the hv connector special tool from the hv battery front drive unit connector .
if the vehicle had the 3rd or the 4th lh inner hv battery bolts , move the driver seat to the center position and the seat back to the upright position . otherwise , skip to the next step .
check to see if the 3rd lh hv battery bolt is present . if the bolt is present , remove the bolt .
install the main instrument panel décor trim . see decor trim instrument panel main .
while pressing the hv battery front drive unit connector onto the hv battery header , fully lower the handle . caution make sure that the handle does not bind as it is lowered .
separate the lh side of the rear main carpet perforations to access the 4th lh inner hv battery bolt , if the bolt is present . note might need to undo the hookandloop strips that are attach the front carpets to the body . note might need to move the driver seat forwards or rearwards if necessary to allow access for the bolt .
remove the 3rd lh inner hv battery bolt .
slide the release to lock the hv battery front drive unit connector handle in the secured position .
release the clips that attach the rear overhead console to the headliner , and then lower the console from the headliner . caution to avoid damaging the headliner , do not pry against the headliner . insert a 90 degree trim tool near the dome light and pull downwards to release the clip , and then move to the other side to release the remaining clip . note rear overhead console without intrusion sensors shown . procedure identical for model with intrusion sensors .
release the clips that attach the front overhead console to the headliner , and then lower the console from the headliner . caution to avoid damaging the headliner , do not pry against the headliner . insert a 90 degree trim tool near the dome light and pull downwards to release the clip , and then move to the other side to release the remaining clip .
remove the 4th lh inner bolt that attaches the hv battery to the body .
fold the rh main carpet back to its original position , and then install the clips that attach the rh front main carpet to the vehicle .
verify that the hv battery front drive unit connector is fully seated , and compare both sides of the connector that it is properly secured in place . note an improperly seated connector might lead to connector damage and front drive unit problems later on .
lift up the trunk floor trim and remove it from the vehicle . tip : use the pull tab located at the rear edge of the trunk floor trim .
release the clips that attach the hood latch cover to the body . tip : grab the cover from the bottom , and then pull it upward to release the clips .
release the clips that attach the child safety switch to the hood latch cover , and remove the switch from the cover .
disconnect the electrical wiring connector from the rear overhead console , and then remove the console from the vehicle .
disconnect the electrical connector from the front overhead console .
remove the 5th lh rear inner bolt that attaches the hv battery to the body . note lift up the rear main carpet for access .
install the rh center console side panel carpet .
disconnect the electrical harness from the child safety switch connector , and then remove the cover from the vehicle .
after installation , connect a laptop with toolbox 3.0 to the vehicle .
release the clips that attach the lh and rh headliner tweeter covers to the headliner , and remove the tweeter covers from the headliner .
push to open the lh rear coat hook .
remove the front overhead console from the headliner .
unfold the lh front carpet back to its original position . note move the front edge down , and then slide back the carpet to ease positioning .
install the rh footwell vent duct . see duct footwell rh .
install washer tank into position
prior to installation of the hood latch cover , use a torch light to inspect the inside of the hood latch housing for any foreign object that may have dropped in . if any object is found , remove it and confirm that the hood latch is operating as intended .
select the `` actions '' tab and type odin_m3_test_fohc_rohc in the search field .
pry open the lh rear coat hook screw cover with a small flat head screwdriver .
connect the front overhead console electrical connector .
connect washer pump and level sensor connectors note 2x connectors
inspect the clips of the hood latch cover that attach the cover to the vehicle body for any damage . if damage is found or when any clip is dislodged or missing , replace the hood latch cover with a new one since the hood latch panel clips are non serviceable parts .
select test front and rear overhead consoles , and then click run network to run the routine .
release the clips that attach the front overhead console to the headliner , and then remove the console from the headliner .
remove the screw that attaches the lh rear coat hook to the body .
push the front overhead console upwards into the headliner and engage the clips
remove the clips that attach the rh front carpet to the vehicle .
connect the second row seat cushion harness , and then install the second row seat cushion .
install upper bolt securing washer tank to vehicle note 1x bolt , 10mm , 3 nm
wait for the routine to complete . note after successful completion of the routine , the message all required odin routines have successfully executed is displayed .
release the clips that attach the lh upper bpillar trim to the vehicle , and then move the upper bpillar trim aside . see trim bpillar upper lh . note do not remove the trim from the seat belt .
release the seat electrical harness from the clips to allow the rh front carpet to fold back more .
secure harness clip onto lh side of washer tank inlet note 1x clip
release the clips that attach the rear overhead console to the headliner , and then remove the console from the headliner .
in toolbox , search for the test routines based on the vehicle type : na or apac vehicles : click the actions tab , and then type `` vfohc '' in the search field . emea vehicles : click the autodiag tab , and then type `` ohc '' in the search field .
remove the rh front inner bolts that attach the hv battery to the body .
press and hold the park button to cancel the epb service mode .
raise vehicle partially and lower lift onto locks note set vehicle to comfortable working height , make sure there 's an audible click of the locks on both sides before lowering , otherwise vehicle may tilt to the side
release the clips that attach the lh coat hook bezel to the lh coat hook assembly , and then remove the lh coat hook assembly from the headliner .
check if the 3rd rh bolt is present . use a flashlight , if needed . remove the bolt , if present . otherwise , skip to the next step .
release the clips that attach the rh coat hook bezel to the rh coat hook assembly , and then remove the rh coat hook assembly from the headliner .
move the front passenger seat to the center position and the seatback to the upright position , if the 3rd rh and 4th rh inner hv battery bolts are present . note might need to undo the hookandloop strips that are attach the front carpets to the body . note might need to move the driver seat forwards or rearwards if necessary to allow access for the bolt .
in toolbox 3 : select `` actions/autodiag '' , and then search for `` stiffness '' . select `` test_brake_x_stiffnesstestpressureburnished '' , click run , and allow the routine to complete . note do not press the brake pedal during the test .
partially release lh front wheel liner note 2x push clips
remove the lh upper apillar trim . see trim apillar upper lh .
remove the 4th rh inner bolt that attaches the hv battery to the body , if equipped . otherwise , skip to the next step .
perform a road test and confirm correct brake pedal feel and brake performance .
install lower bolt securing washer tank to vehicle note 1x bolt , 10mm , 3 nm
remove the lh sun visor . see sun visor driver .
remove the 5th rh rear inner bolt that attaches the hv battery to the body .
install lh front wheel liner to vehicle note 6x clips , 1x bolt , 10mm , 5 nm , newer vehicles may be equipped with 2x push clips securing lower portion of liner to body
remove the lh sun visor check base . see check base sun visor driver .
remove the body plugs from the lift points , install the model 3 lift pad adapters , and then raise and support the vehicle . warning use model 3 lift pad adapters only .
repeat step 1 through step 11 on the rh side of the vehicle .
fully raise the handle on the front drive unit hv connector of the front drive unit to hv battery harness .
put chocks on one of the rear wheels to prevent the vehicle from rolling .
torque lh front wheel note 5x nuts , 21mm , 175 nm
install the hv connector special tool onto the front drive unit hv connector .
remove the laptop from the vehicle , but do not close toolbox .
install lh front wheel center cap note 1x cap , verify emblem is aligned with valve stem
use both hands to firmly connect the front drive unit hv connector of the front drive unit to hv battery harness to the front drive unit hv header . caution make sure that the connector fits the header squarely and tightly , and that both retention pins enter the handle .
lower the headliner . see headliner .
move the driver seat and front passenger seat forward .
remove the center console . see center console . note do not remove the security controller .
open both the forward and rearward center console rotating lids .
move the driver seat and front passenger seat fully forward . note notice the location of the driver seat and front passenger seat prior to moving them forward to help restore the seats back into their original position .
release the clips that attach the headliner electrical harness to the lh apillar area .
in toolbox , click actions , type `` proc_epb '' in the search field , click the play button next to `` proc_epbl_startservicemode '' , and then select run .
install wiper module to vehicle
remove the hv connector special tool from the front drive unit hv connector .
release the clips that attach the bezel to the lh rear coat hook , and then remove the coat hook from the headliner .
use a plastic trim tool to release the clips that attach the center console rear vent assembly to the center console , and then separate the rear vent assembly from the center console . caution the rear vent assembly is still attached by an electrical connector .
move the front seats fully rearward and into the lowest position .
remove the cup holder . see cup holder .
remove and secure the customer 's belongings from the phone tray , if needed .
release the clips that attach the center console lower rear panel to the center console , and then remove the panel from the vehicle . note insert the plastic trim tool at the bottom of the center console lower rear panel , and then pull panel straight out to release it .
disconnect the electrical harness from the headliner connector .
press the brake pedal , click actions , click the play button next to `` proc_epbr_startservicemode , '' and then select run .
connect wiper module connector note 1x connector , do not place limbs within the linkage movement area as wiper arms will automatically transition to parking mode
release the clips and tethers that attach the rh side rail trim to the vehicle , and then remove the trim from the vehicle . tip : release the upper corner of the trim first and work downward . note remove the tethers by twisting and pulling away from the housing . caution do not remove the tethers from the body side . the tethers must be replaced if removed from the body side .
remove the lh front floormat .
remove and attach the customer 's belongings from the center console , if needed .
while pressing the front drive unit hv connector onto the front drive unit hv header , fully lower the handle . caution make sure that the handle does not bind as it is lowered .
move the front lh front seat fully rearward .
disconnect the electrical harness from the center console rear usb hub connector , and then remove the center console rear vent assembly from the vehicle .
pivot the center console armrest up .
disconnect the sliding lid connector and release the connector from the console assembly .
remove the phone dock mat from the center console .
release the clips that attach the headliner to the body .
remove the hv cap that covers the hv harness located on the lh side of the penthouse .
install the bolts securing wiper module note 3x bolts , 10mm , 7 nm
push to open the rh rear coat hook .
remove the center console . see center console
move the lh front seat to the lowest and most rearward position .
with an assistant , install the center console into the vehicle as follows : tilt the front of the center console downwards . slide the center console towards the front of the vehicle . tilt the rear of the center console downwards until it is in place .
slide the release to lock the front drive unit hv connector handle in the secured position .
remove the front lh floormat from the vehicle .
release the clips that attach the center console decor trim to the assembly .
remove the screws that attach the sliding lid to the center console assembly . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t20 socket 4 in extension ¼ in std ratchet
if any cables are installed into the center console phone tray routing , raise the phone tray , s lide the phone tray bar to the left , and then remove the bar from the phone tray .
with the help of an assistant , remove the headliner through the front passenger doorway and out of the vehicle .
install fresh air intake assembly note set clips on bulkhead studs
use a small flat head screwdriver to pry open the rh rear coat hook screw cover .
raise the center console armrest for access .
remove the bolts and release the clips that attach the center console end panel to the center console , and then remove the end panel from the console . 1.1 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t20 socket 4 in extension
release the clips that attach the lh center console decor trim to the center console , and then remove the decor trim . figure 1 . clip locations on center console figure 2 . clip locations on decor trim
open the center console rotating lid .
verify that the front drive unit hv connector is fully seated , and compare both sides of the connector that it is properly secured in place . note an improperly seated connector might lead to connector damage and front drive unit problems later on .
release the clips and tabs that attach the center console side panel carpet to the center console , and then remove the side panel from the vehicle . note release the rearmost clips first and work toward the front of the vehicle . transfer any clips that remain in the center console and the cross car beam to the center console side panel carpet .
disconnect the center console inductive charger module electrical connector , and then release the surrounding clips that attach the center console decor to the center console to remove the assembly from the center console .
remove the sliding lid from the console assembly .
remove any cables from the center console phone tray routing , if installed , and then move the cables through the opening in the center console phone tray .
with the help of an assistant , move the headliner through the front passenger doorway and into the cabin .
if the hv battery dc input is configured with busbars , continue to the next step , otherwise skip to step 56 .
install cowl screen assembly note 2x push clips , 6x clips
remove the screw that attaches the rh rear coat hook to the body . 2.5 nm figure 1 . lh shown , rh similar
remove the lh and rh center console decor trim . see decor trim center console lh .
repeat step 1 through step 3 to remove the rh center console decor trim , if necessary .
connect the electrical connector in the rear of the center console . caution ensure the connector is properly installed . perform a pushpull test before continuing this procedure .
align the tab in the front of the lh side panel carpet before attaching the clips .
remove the screws that attach the center console wireless charger module to the center console decor . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : t20 socket 4in extension
position the sliding lid onto the console assembly .
raise the center console phone tray to access the screws .
install the clip that attaches the speaker wiring harness to the tuner .
install the headliner to the body , and then fasten the clips that attach the headliner to the body .
remove the bolt that secures the charge port busbar connector access door .
install the rh shock tower cover note 2x push clips
release the clips that attach the rh upper bpillar trim to the vehicle , and then move the upper bpillar trim aside . note it is not necessary to completely remove the upper bpillar trim from the vehicle ; only remove the trim with the seat belt still going though the upper bpillar trim and set it aside .
remove the screws that attach the lh bright strip to the center console . note use of the following tool is recommended :
release the clips that attach the cupholder decor trim to the cupholder assembly , and then separate the trim from the center console assembly .
remove the bolts that attach the lh front of the center console to the body . note use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 4 in extension ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench
release the tabs that attach the center console wireless charger module to the center console decor , and then remove the module from the assembly .
install the screws that attach the sliding lid to the center console assembly . 1.1 nm
remove the screws that attach the center console phone tray to the center console . 1 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t20 socket 4 in extension
connect the package tray harness connector to the rh body electrical harness .
connect the electrical harness to the headliner connector .
remove the bolts that attach the charge port busbar connector to the dc input hv header , and then lift to remove the connector from the header .
install the lh shock tower cover note 2x push clips
repeat step 3 through step 7 for the lh side of the vehicle .
release the 6 tabs that attach the bright strip to the center console , and then remove the bright strip .
position the center console wireless charger module into the center console decor , and then secure the tabs .
connect the sliding lid connector .
release the clips that attach the center console phone tray to the center console , and remove the tray from the vehicle .
install the clips that attach the package tray wiring harness to the cpillar .
fasten the clips that attach the headliner electrical harness to the lh apillar area .
skip to step 59 .
remove the bolts that attach the charge port to hv battery harness bracket at the penthouse .
install lh wiper arm and hose assembly onto vehicle note the washer hose shall be routed over the arm pivot joint , not under
move the lh front seat fully rearward , and then move the seat back to the down position .
remove the screws that attach the rh bright strip to the center console .
using toolbox , type `` vcsec '' in the search tab . note make sure `` actions '' is selected , if not already .
remove the bolt that attaches the lh rear of the center console to the body . repeat this step for the rh rear of the center console . note use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 4 in extension ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench
install the screws that attach the center console wireless charger module to the center console decor . 1.3 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : t20 socket 4in extension
install the cup holder . see cup holder .
install the rh rear cpillar trim . see trim cpillar rear lh .
if the hv battery dc input is configured with busbars , continue to the next step , otherwise skip to step 64 .
install the nut securing the lh wiper arm to wiper module note 1x nut , 15mm , 25 nm , make sure the wiper tip is aligned between the two indicators at windshield
disconnect the electrical harness from the center console puddle light connector .
using toolbox , click the play button next to `` pingtp_vcsec , '' and then select run .
move the front passenger seat backward and the seat back to the down position .
connect the center console inductive charger module electrical connector , and then fasten the surrounding clips that attach the center console decor to the center console .
install the center console . see center console .
install the lower quad camera cover . see quad camera cover lower .
connect washer hose from lh wiper arm to ytube fitting and secure washer hose clips note 2x clips , 1x hose
release the clips that attach the cup holder decor to the center console .
remove the bolts that attach the rh front of the center console to the body . note use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 4 in extension ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench
repeat step 3 through step 5 for the rh side of the vehicle .
install the clips that attach the center console decor trim to the center console .
install the lh sun visor check base . see check base sun visor driver .
install lh wiper arm nut cover note 1x cover
disconnect the electrical connector from security controller , and then remove the cup holder decor .
release the tabs of the cap and move the power socket and cap together out through the cup holder assembly .
using toolbox , click the play button next to `` proc_vcsec_x_provisioning , '' and then select run .
install the lh sun visor . see sun visor driver .
if the charge port to hv battery harness has a 3phase connector , continue to the next step , otherwise skip to step 63 .
skip to step 67 .
install the rh wiper arm and hose assembly onto vehicle
disconnect the connectors from the 12v outlet and the puddle light .
release the clips that attach the puddle light to the cup holder , and then remove the puddle light from the cup holder .
using toolbox , click the play button next to `` testself_vcsec_x_endpointcomm '' and select run .
remove the bolt that attaches the lh rear of the center console to the body . note use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 4 in extension ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench
disconnect the electrical connector from the rear of the center console .
move the front seats to the original position .
install the lh upper apillar trim . see trim apillar upper lh .
install the nut securing the rh wiper arm to wiper module note 1x nut , 15mm , 25 nm , make sure the wiper tip is aligned between the two indicators at corner of windshield
remove the screws that attach the cup holder assembly to the center console . 1.1 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : torx t20 socket 4 in extension
use a plastic trim tool to remove the cup holder liner from the cup holder .
place the nfc cards on the center console behind the cup holders . note 2 nfc cards are required when pairing : 2 unprogrammed nfc cards , or 1 unprogrammed nfc card and one previously programmed nfc card .
remove the bolt that attaches the rh rear of the center console to the body . note use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 4 in extension ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench
disconnect the electrical connector that is located at the rh front of the center console .
close the front doors .
if the hv battery dc input is configured with busbars , continue to the next step , otherwise skip to step 63 .
connect washer hose from rh wiper arm to ytube fitting and secure washer hose clips note 2x clips , 1x hose
release the clips that attach the cup holder assembly to the center console , and then remove the cup holder assembly from the center console .
remove the screw that attaches the armrest latch grommet to the cup holder . 1.6 nm
using toolbox , click the play button next to `` proc_vcsec_c_pairnfccard '' and select run .
on the touchscreen , select control > safety & security > vehicle power > power off to power off the vehicle .
with an assistant , remove the center console from the vehicle as follows : tilt the rear of the center console upwards . pull the center console towards the rear of the vehicle . tilt the front of the center console upwards . remove the center console through the passenger front door .
install rh wiper arm nut cover note 1x cover
disconnect the connectors from the rh side of the center console .
remove the screws that attach the cup holder lower assembly to the center console , and remove the cup holder from the vehicle . 1.1 nm
using toolbox , type the number of nfc cards to be paired to the vehicle , and then select submit .
pivot the armrest to the up position .
release the clip that attaches the charge port to hv harness connector at the sill area .
if the charge port to hv battery harness has a 3phase connector , continue to the next step , otherwise skip to step 71 .
install frunk assembly to vehicle note 12x clips , make sure frunk assembly is fully seated onto the clips , number of clips may vary on older vehicles
repeat step 9 through step 14 for the rh side of the vehicle .
disconnect the connectors from the usb controller .
check the function of the programmed nfc cards .
release the clips that attach the center console decor to the center console assembly , and then disconnect the electrical connector to remove the decor from the assembly . note release the clips on the lh and rh sides of the center console , and then release the clips on the front portion of the trim .
move the driver seat and the front passenger seat to their original position .
install the lh upper bpillar trim , and then fasten the clips that attach the trim to the vehicle . see trim bpillar upper lh .
skip to step 66 .
remove the bolts that attach the lh and rh inner penthouse rails to the penthouse cover .
install fasteners securing the frunk assembly note 7x bolts , 10mm , 5 nm , lower the rbn covers after installing upper fasteners , newer vehicles may not be equipped with covers
release the clips that attach the cables to the center console front bin insert .
using toolbox , type `` immobilizer '' in the search tab .
remove the bolts that attach the bright work to the center console . 1.6 nm
install the screw that attaches the lh rear coat hook to the body . 2.5 nm
remove the dcdc ground busbar . see busbar dcdc ground .
remove the screws that attach the center console front bin insert to the center console . 1.1 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : torx t20 socket 4 in extension
using toolbox , click the play button next to `` proc_di_ximmobilizer , '' and then select run .
remove the phone tray . see phone tray center console .
release the tabs that attach the bright work to the center console assembly , and then remove the bright work from the assembly .
close the lh rear coat hook screw cover .
release the clips that attach the headliner to the body .
remove and attach the customer 's belongings from the armrest , if needed .
pull up to release the clips that attach the center console front bin insert to the center console , and then remove the bin .
open both lh doors .
using toolbox , type `` odometer '' in the search tab .
remove the bolts that attach the front of the center console to the body . note use of the following tool is recommended : torx t20 socket 4 in extension ¼ in std ratchet wiha torquevarios 0.8 nm 2.0 nm screwdriver wiha ¼ in bit holder adapter wiha torque setter
release the clips that attach the cup holder decor to the center console assembly , and then disconnect the security controller electrical connector .
close the lh rear coat hook .
with an assistant , remove the headliner from the vehicle . note remove the headliner through the front passenger door .
lower all the windows , and then move the lh and rh front seats forward .
release the clips that attach the old lh side rail tethers to the lh side rail , and then remove and discard the tethers from the vehicle .
release the push clips that attach the lh side rail trim to the lh side rail . tip : release the top clip first and work towards the trunk .
close the center console rotating lid to prevent it from getting stuck on the center display upon removal of the center console from the vehicle .
remove the screws that attach the security controller to the cup holder decor , and then remove the security controller from the decor . 1.6 nm
if the charge port to hv battery harness has a 3phase connector , continue to the next step , otherwise skip to step 70 .
raise the vehicle to a comfortable working height . caution verify that the vehicle is stable on the lift .
open the lh front door .
apply tape around lh front door trim decor .
if not preinstalled , install new push clips onto the new lh side rail trim .
release the side rail trim tethers from the side rail trim one at a time by twisting and pulling away from the trim . caution do not remove the side rail trim tethers from the body side . if removed from the body side , the tethers will have to be replaced .
release the clips that attach the upper cpillar trim , and then remove the trim from the vehicle . tip : pull outward at the lower section of the upper cpillar trim until both clips release , and then move the trim slightly downwards to remove the trim from the vehicle . note remove any remaining lh upper cpillar trim clips from the lh cpillar , and if the lh upper cpillar trim is to be later installed , remove all clips from the trim .
using toolbox , type `` reset_di '' in the search tab .
repeat step 14 through step 19 for the new center console .
repeat step 7 through step 17 on the rh side of the vehicle .
verify operation of windshield washers and wipers
release the upper clip that attaches the lh middle apillar trim to the vehicle , and then pull the trim upwards to remove it from the vehicle . note remove any remaining lh middle apillar trim clips from the lh apillar , and if the lh middle apillar trim is to be later installed , remove the clip from the trim .
release the nvh pad from the tabs , then remove the pad from the lh door panel .
use a plastic trim tool to release the front door reflector from the rear edge of the front door panel . caution take care not to damage the door panel .
use a trim tool to release the clips that attach the lh door decor to the lh door trim panel , from front edge to rear . note number of clips may vary .
place a protective cover , such as a fender cover , on top of the 2nd row lower seat cushion area .
remove the new side rail trim tether clips from the new lh side rail trim .
remove the side rail trim from the vehicle . note remove any remaining lh side rail trim push clips from the lh side rail , and remove all push clips from the lh side rail trim .
if reusing the same lh upper cpillar trim , install new clips onto the trim .
release the clip and tabs that attach the lh rear cpillar trim to the body , and then set the trim aside .
move the seatbelt shoulder adjustment to the fully down position .
using toolbox , click the play button next to `` testreset_di , '' and then select run .
position the security controller removed from the original center console onto the new center console cup holder decor , and then install the screws that attach the security controller to the cup holder decor . 1.6 nm
release the clips along the bottom edge of the lh and rh wheel arch liners .
remove the center console end panel . see end panel center console .
if reusing the same lh middle apillar trim , install a new clip onto the trim .
remove the lh middle apillar trim panel . see trim apillar middle lh .
remove the bolt that attach interior door handle to door panle trim . note use a trim tool to gently pry the trim to access to fasten location .
install the front door reflector by pushing it into the door panel . make sure the front door reflector is fully attached .
unhook the door decor from the lh door trim panel and then remove the decor from the panel . figure 1 . trim decor clip and hook location
install the new side rail trim tether clips on the lh side rail . caution do not remove the clips after they are fully seated on the lh side rail . the clips are one time use .
install new push clips onto the lh side rail trim .
install the lh upper cpillar trim by sliding it under the side curtain airbag , and then align the upper clip . secure the trim with clips .
remove and discard the bolt that attaches the lower seatbelt anchor to the vehicle .
while wearing suitable gloves , spread the bottom of the lh upper bpillar trim open , and then release the clips that attach the bottom of the trim to the lh lower bpillar trim . caution be careful not to pull the lh upper bpillar trim too far , otherwise it might break the seatbelt shoulder adjustment mechanism . note move the body seals to aid removal .
connect the security controller electrical connector , and then install the clips that attach the cup holder decor to the center console assembly .
remove the screw that attaches the cap of the armrest hinge pin to the center console , and then remove the cap . 1.6 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t15 socket 4 in extension
release the clips that attach the lh upper apillar trim to the apillar . note release the top clip first and work forward and down .
align the bottom tab , and then push the top clip to fully seat the lh middle apillar trim . note make sure that the door seal is on top of the trim .
release the topmost clip on the lh lower apillar trim .
use the pin drag kit to separate pins from the connector .
hook the end of the door decor into the door trim panel , and then fasten the clips that attach the decor to the trim panel . note number of clips may vary .
pull upward at the lower corner of the rear lh sill panel trim to release clips that attach the rear lh sill panel trim to the lower cpillar , and then remove the sill panel trim from the vehicle . note remove any remaining rear lh sill panel trim clips from the lh cpillar , and if the rear lh sill panel trim is to be later installed , remove all clips from the trim .
hook the lh side rail trim tethers on the lh side rail trim , and then position the side rail trim on the side rail .
make sure that the side rail tethers are undamaged , and at the correct positions on the lh side rail .
release the bezel clips that attach the seatbelt bezel to the lh rear cpillar trim , and then slide the bezel off of the seatbelt .
slip your fingers beneath the seal at the top part of the upper bpillar trim , and then separate the upper bpillar trim from the body .
install the bolt that attaches the rh rear of the center console to the body . 7 nm
position the bright work onto the center console assembly , and then secure the tabs that attach the bright work to the center console assembly . note verify there are no gaps along the trim .
remove lift arms from below vehicle note lower lift arms fully and remove from under vehicle as necessary
open the armrest , and then use a flat screwdriver to release the spring from the hook .
release the lh upper apillar trim tether by twisting and pulling the tether hooks away from the lh upper apillar trim . caution do not remove the lh upper apillar trim tether from the body side . if removed from the body side , the tether will have to be replaced .
pull the rearmost part of the lh lower apillar trim upward to release the clips and tabs , and then pull the entire trim rearward to remove the trim from the vehicle . note remove any remaining lh lower apillar trim clips from the lh apillar and sill , and if the lh lower apillar trim is to be later installed , remove all clips from the trim .
apply masking tape around the work area to protect the door trim panel .
remove tape from lh front door trim .
firmly fasten the push clips that attach the lh side rail trim to the lh side rail . note fasten the top clip first near the coat hanger , and work towards the trunk . important : make sure each clip makes an audible snap as they engage with the side rail . if there is no audible snap , the clip has not properly attached . remove the side rail trim , inspect the clips , replace any damaged clips , and then reinstall the trim .
hook the side rail trim tethers on the side rail trim , and then position the side rail trim on the vehicle .
move the seatbelt through the lh rear cpillar trim , and then remove the trim from the vehicle . note remove any remaining lh rear cpillar trim clips from the lh cpillar , and if the lh rear cpillar trim is to be later installed , remove all clips from the trim .
guide the seatbelt retainer through the lh upper bpillar trim , and then remove the trim from the vehicle . note remove any remaining lh upper bpillar trim clips from the lh bpillar , and if the lh upper bpillar trim is to be later installed , remove all clips from the trim .
install the bolt that attaches the lh rear of the center console to the body . 7 nm
install the bolt that attaches the rh rear of the center console to the body . 7 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 4 in extension ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench
install the bolts that attach the bright work to the center console . 1.6 nm
close the armrest , and then tap towards the lh side with a hammer and pin to remove the armrest hinge pin from the center console . note the armrest must be closed before proceeding .
pull upwards to remove the lh upper apillar trim from the vehicle . note remove any remaining lh upper apillar trim clips from the lh apillar , and if the lh upper apillar trim is to be later installed , remove all clips from the trim .
use the trim tool to pry open the front portion of interior door handle .
if reusing the same lh rear cpillar trim , install new clips onto the trim .
if reusing the same lh upper bpillar trim , install new clips onto the trim .
install the center console lower rear panel . see panel lower rear center console .
install the bolt that attaches the lh rear of the center console to the body . 7 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 4 in extension ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench
position the center console decor onto the center console assembly , connect the electrical connector , and then fasten the clips that attach the decor to the center console .
raise the armrest and remove it from the center console .
release the clips that attach the lh upper bpillar trim to the vehicle , and then set the trim aside . note pull the bottom of the lh upper bpillar trim towards the inside of the vehicle to release the bottom clips , and then pull the top of the trim to release the remaining upper clips .
if reusing the same lh upper apillar trim , install new clips onto the trim .
remove the electirc release switch from the door trim panel .
move the seatbelt through the lh rear cpillar trim .
make sure that the seatbelt shoulder adjustment mechanism and the slider trim on the upper bpillar trim are at their lowest position .
install the bolts that attach the front of the center console to the body . 1.7 nm
before installing the armrest , make sure it is in the open position as it is fastened .
release the clips that attach the lh lower bpillar trim to the body , and remove the trim from the vehicle . note remove any remaining lh lower bpillar trim clips from the lh bpillar , and if the lh lower bpillar trim is to be later installed , remove all clips from the trim .
make sure that the clips are undamaged , and at the correct positions on the trim .
use the pin drag kit to seperate pins from the new connector .
slide the seatbelt bezel onto the seat belt , and then fasten the bezel clips that attach the seatbelt bezel to the lh rear cpillar trim .
move the seatbelt retainer through the lh upper bpillar trim , and then attach it to the seat .
install the phone tray . see phone tray center console .
install the bolts that attach the front of the center console to the body . 1.7 nm torx t20 socket 4 in extension ¼ in std ratchet wiha torquevarios 0.8 nm 2.0 nm screwdriver wiha ¼ in bit holder adapter wiha torque setter
connect the electrical connector that is located at the rh front of the center console . caution ensure the connector is properly installed . perform a pushpull test before continuing this procedure .
align the slot of the armrest hinge pin with the tab in the armrest pivot hole .
fasten the tether hooks to the lh upper apillar trim .
install the electric release switch from the door trim panel .
install a new bolt to attach the lower seatbelt anchor to the vehicle . 30 nm
insert the top portion of the upper bpillar trim under the headliner .
connect the electrical connector that is located at the rh front of the center console . caution ensure the connector is properly installed . perform a pushpull test before continuing this procedure .
insert the front lower edge of the trim into the instrument panel carrier , and then firmly fasten the clips that attach the lh upper apillar trim to the apillar . note fasten the top clip first , and then work toward the front of the vehicle . note look through the windshield from outside of the vehicle to check that the lh upper apillar trim is flush with the apillar .
secure the pins to the connector .
slide the rearmost tabs of the lh rear cpillar trim into the body first , push the frontmost tabs toward the rear , and then fasten the clip and tabs that attach the lh rear cpillar trim to the body .
press the bottom of the lh upper bpillar trim into the lh lower bpillar trim , and then apply side pressure to fasten the clips .
install the bolts that attach the rh front of the center console to the body . 7 nm
install the bolts that attach the rh front of the center console to the body . 7 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 4 in extension ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench
remove the rear lh door panel . see panel door trim rear lh .
open the lh rear door , and fully lower the window .
open the front lh door , and fully lower the window .
pull the primary front side body seal over the lh upper apillar trim .
install the bolt that secure interior door handle to door panel trim . note use a trim tool to gently pry the trim to gain access to fasten location .
install the lh upper cpillar trim . see trim cpillar upper lh .
press the top of the lh upper bpillar trim into the top of the bpillar , and then apply side pressure to fasten the clips .
remove the lh rear door puddle light . see puddle light rear door lh .
remove the front lh door tweeter . see tweeter front door lh .
release the clips at the upper corners , then work around the trim to release the clips that attach the trunk trim to the trunk lid . note the clips closest to the rear window have a higher retention force ; use a clip prytool , if necessary . remove any broken clips from the trunk lid .
release the clips at the upper corners , then work around the trim to release the clips that attach the trunk trim to the trunk lid . caution support the trim while releasing the clips , as the power trunk switch harness is still connected to the trim . note the clips closest to the rear window have a higher retention force ; use a clip prytool , if necessary . remove any broken clips from the trunk lid .
release the push clips that attach the ends of the trunk garnish to the body . figure 1 . lh shown , rh similar
secure the nvh pad onto the tabs , then install the nvh pad from the lh door panel .
reposition the body seals so that they overlap the lh upper bpillar trim .
remove the power trunk lid trim . see trim lid power trunk .
use a trim tool to remove the lower quad camera cover .
release the driver sun visor from the check base .
release the clips that attach the driver sun visor bracket cover to the vehicle .
release the clip that attaches the screw cover to the front of the lh rear door armrest , and then remove the screw cover from the armrest .
remove the lh front door puddle light . see puddle light front door lh .
remove the trunk lid trim from the trunk lid , and then remove any remaining clips from the trunk lid . note if the trunk trim removed is to be later installed , remove all clips from the trim .
disconnect the electrical harness from the power trunk switch on the trunk trim .
install the lh front door trim panel . see panel door trim front lh .
move the lh front seat to its original position .
install the bolts that attach the lh front of the center console to the body . 7 nm
insert a small flat head screwdriver between the latch and latch cover , as illustrated , and then gently pry the latch cover away from the latch .
remove the tether from the lower quad camera cover , and then remove the lower quad camera cover .
grip the rear view mirror stalk , and then turn counterclockwise to release the rear view mirror . caution do not turn the rear view mirror itself .
carefully release the clips that attach the sun visor check cover to the check base , and then remove the cover from the vehicle .
remove the fastener that attaches the driver sun visor to the vehicle . 3.5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t25 socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 2 in extension
remove the screws that attach the trim panel to the door . 6 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t30 socket ¼ in std ratchet 2 in extension ¼ in torque wrench
release the clips that attach the reflector to the rear edge of the lh front door trim panel and the screw cover to the front of the armrest , and then remove the reflector and cover from the trim panel .
if reusing the same trunk lid trim , install new clips onto the trim .
remove the trunk lid trim from the trunk lid , and then remove any remaining clips from the trunk lid and trunk lid trim .
use a diagonal cutter or retractable blade knife to remove only the red tabs shown . caution use eye protection , cutresistant gloves , and proper ppe when performing the rework .
close both lh doors .
install the bolts that attach the lh front of the center console to the body . 7 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 4 in extension ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench
install the bolt that attaches the rh rear of the center console to the body . repeat this step for the lh rear of the center console . 7 nm
release the clips that attach the upper quad camera cover , disconnect the interior camera connector , and then remove the upper quad camera cover and interior camera assembly from the vehicle . caution do not pull the upper quad camera cover with excessive force , as the electrical harness is still attached to the interior camera .
release the clips that attach the upper quad camera cover , disconnect the interior camera connector , and then remove the upper quad camera cover and interior camera assembly from the vehicle .
disconnect the electrical connector from the rear view mirror , and then remove the mirror from the vehicle .
remove the bolt that attaches the sun visor check base to the body , and then remove the check base from the vehicle . 0.8 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t15 socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench caution to avoid damage , ensure this torque specification is followed and power tools are not used during installation . note make sure the fastener used in installation is part number 112016200b or later . the torque specification is different on older fasteners .
disconnect the electrical connector from the driver sun visor .
pull out on the trim panel from the puddle light opening to release the clips that attach the trim panel to the door . caution do not remove the trim panel from the door at this time . figure 1 . trim panel clip locations figure 2 . door clip locations
remove the screws that attach the trim panel to the door . figure 1 . rear figure 2 . middle figure 3 . front
remove the screws that attach the trim panel to the door . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t30 socket 4 in extension ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench figure 1 . rear figure 2 . middle figure 3 . front
align the trunk lid tabs with the slots on the trunk lid , and then press the clips into the trunk lid .
install new clips onto the trim . note the trunk lid trim uses two different style clips .
make sure the reworked part matches the picture .
remove the screws that attach the interior camera to the upper quad camera cover , and then remove the interior camera from the upper quad camera cover .
remove and discard the patch screws that attach the triple camera hood , and then remove the triple camera hood from the vehicle .
remove the driver sun visor from the vehicle .
continue to pull and release all of the clips around the edge of the trim panel , working from the bottom up . caution do not remove the trim panel from the door at this time .
pull out on the trim panel from the puddle light opening to release the clips that attach the trim panel to the door . caution do not remove the trim panel from the door at this time . figure 4 . trim panel clip locations figure 5 . door clip locations
connect the electrical harness to the power trunk switch , align the trunk lid trim tabs with the slots on the trunk lid , and then press the clips into the trunk lid . note make sure all clips are fully seated .
install the trunk garnish onto the body , and fasten the tabs that attach the trunk garnish to the body . note make sure the trunk garnish is firmly attached to the body .
position the interior camera onto the upper quad camera cover , and then install the screws that attach the interior camera onto the upper quad camera cover . 1 nm
use glass cleaner and a clean towel to thoroughly clean the windshield area in front of the camera .
disconnect the electrical wiring harness from the connectors , and then release the clips that attaches the electrical harness to the trim panel . caution do not remove the trim panel from the door at this time . figure 3 . trim panel connectors figure 4 . door electrical harness connectors
connect the interior camera connector , and then install the clips that attach the upper quad camera cover to the vehicle .
use the alignment pins to place the triple camera hood in the correct location on the windshield bracket .
raise the trim panel up to unhook it from the door , and then remove the panel from the door .
remove the manual release cable collar from the trim panel , and pivot the collar down to a vertical orientation .
check the lh rear door for any remaining push clip retainers , and if present , remove them from the door .
slide the cable barrel end out of the release lever , and remove the cable from the trim panel .
inspect the condition of the lh rear door and the lh rear door trim panel . replace any broken clips and repair any damage .
disconnect the electrical harness from the connectors , and then release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the trim panel . caution do not remove the trim panel from the door at this time . figure 6 . trim panel connectors figure 7 . door electrical harness connectors
bring the trim panel to the door , and rest it on the door edge .
if present , remove and discard the cable ties that attach the electrical harness to the door trim panel .
remove and discard the nvh pad from the glove box . note the nvh pad is one time use only .
remove the screw that attaches the lh front vent , and then pull out the lh side of the lh front vent to release it from the instrument panel . 2.3 nm
fasten the clip that attaches the electrical wiring harness to the trim panel .
if present , release the electrical harness from the door trim harness hooks .
release the clips that attach the glove box solenoid electrical harness to the glove box .
disconnect the electrical connector from the lh front vent , and then remove the lh front vent from the vehicle .
connect the short wire off of the electrical harness to the speaker . warning if the door light connector is plugged into the speaker , the speaker is permanently damaged and might cause melting . do not interchange the electrical harness speaker connector and door light connector .
raise the trim panel up to unhook it from the door , and then place the panel on a clean surface .
remove the bolts that attach the glove box solenoid to the glove box , and then remove the solenoid from the glove box . note the solenoid plunger has a right angle bend into the link rod .
if the vehicle is left hand drive , make sure not to dislodge the foam block in the cavity where the front lh vent installs .
remove the second row seat cushion . see seat cushion lower 2nd row .
connect the electrical harness to the lh rear door trim panel connectors .
check the lh front door for any remaining push clip retainers , and if present , remove them from the door . figure 8 . lower rear corner of door shown ; check the entire door for push clip retainers
install bungee straps to pull the lh and rh wheel arch liners away from the hv battery and expose the coolant hoses .
partially close all doors in preparation for pushing the vehicle .
remove the wheel chocks from the wheel .
disconnect the electrical harness from the ptc heater hv connector , and then release the electrical harness from the bracket .
remove the wheel chocks from the wheel , and with an assistant , push the vehicle to a lift , then rechock the wheel . caution push the vehicle for a very short distance and at less than 1 mph .
disconnect the electrical harness from the a/c hv connector , and then release the electrical harness from the bracket .
remove the body plugs from the underside of the vehicle , and insert the lift pad adapters into the holes at each lifting arm pad . warning use model 3 lift pad adapters only .
remove the body plugs from the underside of the vehicle , and insert the lift pad adapters into the holes at each lifting arm pad . warning use model 3 lift pad adapters only . caution verify jack locations prior to lifting the vehicle .
remove the bolt that attaches the ground strap to the front drive unit .
remove the bolt that attaches the ground strap bolt to the hv battery , and then remove the ground strap from the vehicle .
perform a rear powertrain coolant drain . see powertrain coolant .
perform a platter enclosure coolant drain . see platter enclosure coolant .
repeat step 9 through step 11 for the lh side of the vehicle .
fasten the push clips that attach the ends of the trunk garnish to the body . figure 2 . lh shown , rh similar
release the clip and disconnect the powertrain return hose at the rh side of the vehicle , and immediately plug the male and female fittings .
restore the customer 's belongings into the center console , if needed .
release the clip and disconnect the rear powertrain supply hose at the rh side of the vehicle , and immediately plug the male and female fittings .
remove the smaller bolts that attach the lh shear plate to the body .
install new patch screws that attach the triple camera hood to the windshield bracket . 1 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : wiha torquevarios 0.8 nm 2.0 nm screwdriver wiha torque setter t10 blade attachment
remove the larger bolt that attaches the lh shear plate and rear subframe to the body , and then remove the lh shear plate .
release the clip and disconnect the hv battery return hose at the lh side of the vehicle , and immediately plug the male and female fittings .
reinstall the larger bolt , and handtighten the bolt to the rear subframe .
repeat steps 85 through 88 for the rh shear plate .
release the clips that attach the steering column upper gap hider to the steering column .
put the support stand to support the front portion of the rear subframe .
release the clip and disconnect the chiller to hv battery hose from the manifold at the lh side of the vehicle , and immediately plug the male and female fittings .
with an assistant , put the battery table in position , and then lower the vehicle to support the hv battery . note line up the battery table so that the center 4 bolts of the hv battery are accessible through the opening in the battery table .
remove the touchscreen . see touchscreen . note the center display housing is removed at the end of the touchscreen procedure .
remove and secure the customer 's belongings from the glove box , if needed .
release the clips that attach the end cap . warning wear cutresistant gloves when performing this step to avoid personal injury .
remove the steering column upper shroud from the instrument panel .
remove the coolant drain from underneath the vehicle .
remove both the lh and rh air wave end caps . see end cap air wave lh .
remove the end cap from the vehicle .
release the clips that attach the lh air wave end cap to the main instrument panel decor trim , and then remove the cap from the vehicle .
release the clips that attach the steering column upper gap hider to the steering column shroud .
position the coolant drain under the rear lh side of the hv battery .
install the glove box solenoid to the glove box . note align the glove box solenoid with the link rod , and then push down to install .
remove the screw that attaches the rh front vent to the instrument panel , and then pull the rh side of the rh front vent to release it from the instrument panel . 2.3 nm
remove the bolt that attaches the lh side window defroster duct to the ip carrier , and then remove the duct from the carrier . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 2 in extension ratchet/torque wrench torx t20 socket
lift the trim panel , compress the lh rear door inner belt seal slightly , and hook the three trim panel tabs into the top edge of the door .
inspect the condition of the lh front door and the lh front door trim panel . replace any broken clips and repair any damage .
release the clip and disconnect the rear drive unit inverter inlet hose from the lh underside of the penthouse , and immediately plug the male and female fittings .
remove the driver knee airbag . see airbag knee driver
release the clips that attach the speaker grille to the body . rotate the rear of the speaker grille upwards , and then pull the grille towards the rear of the vehicle to remove it .
install the screws that attach the glove box solenoid to the glove box . 0.8 nm
remove the screws that attach the lh side of the vent finisher . 2.3 nm
disconnect the electrical connector from the rh front vent , and then remove the rh front vent from the vehicle .
remove the bolt that attaches the rh side window defroster duct to the ip carrier , and then remove the duct from the carrier . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 2 in extension ratchet/torque wrench torx t20 socket
move the electrical harness connector for the puddle light out the hole in the bottom of the trim panel .
position the coolant drain under the rear rh side of the hv battery .
replace any damaged clips on the instrument panel speaker grille .
install the clips that attach the glove box solenoid electrical harness to the glove box .
remove the lh and rh instrument panel end cap s . see end cap instrument panel lh .
remove the screws that attach the rh side of the vent finisher . 2.3 nm
if the vehicle is rhd , make sure not to dislodge the foam block in the cavity where the front rh vent installs .
release the tabs that attach the lh defrost duct cover to the ip carrier , and then remove the cover from the carrier .
install the lh rear door puddle light . see puddle light rear door lh .
if present , remove and discard the highlighted clip .
repeat steps 89 through 92 for the rh shear plate .
release the clip and disconnect the coolant outlet hose from the powertrain return hose , and immediately plug the male and female fittings .
position the instrument panel speaker grille into position on the instrument panel .
install a new nvh pad onto the glove box .
release the clips that attach the vent finisher , and then pull the finisher toward the rear of the vehicle to remove it . note the top pad must be lifted slightly in order to insert a trim tool , and then release the clips .
peel the nvh pad from the glove box .
release the tabs that attach the rh defrost duct cover to the ip carrier , and then remove the cover from the carrier .
make sure that the puddle light and map pocket ambient light illuminate when connected .
route the harness as illustrated , making sure to attach the harness to the hooks on the door trim panel .
route the harness as illustrated . if harness hooks are present , attach the harness to the hooks . if harness hooks are not present , attach the harness to the door trim panel with cable ties . figure 9 . attach harness to hooks , if present figure 10 . secure harness with cable ties if hooks are not present
remove the support stand from underneath the rear subframe
attach the clips that secure the instrument panel grille to the vehicle . use a plastic pry stick to press the vertical clips forward to assist with inserting them into the ip carrier . note make sure of the following : the instrument panel speaker grille forward hooks are fully engaged into the ip carrier . there is no gap at the bottom of the windshield .
use ipa wipes to remove remaining adhesive residue from the glove box , and then allow one minute for the ipa to dry .
remove the lh and rh upper apillar trim . see trim apillar upper lh
release the clips that attach the driver knee airbag cover to the ip carrier , and then remove the cover from the carrier .
fasten the clips that attach the trim panel to the door .
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harnesses to the trim panel .
release the push clips that attach the passenger footwell cover to the ip carrier .
release the clips that attach the passenger footwell cover to the vehicle .
release the clips and remove the screw that attach the driver footwell cover to the vehicle . 2.5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t20 socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 4 in extension figure 1 . lefthand drive figure 2 . righthand drive
install the lh and rh upper apillar trims . see trim apillar upper lh .
install a new nvh pad onto the glove box assembly .
release the tabs and clips that attach the lower gap hider to the ip carrier , and then remove the gap hider from the carrier .
make sure that the trim panel fits tightly , and that there are no gaps from misaligned or bent clips .
connect the electrical harness to the lh front door trim panel connectors .
repeat steps 96 through 99 for the rh shear plate .
remove both the lh air wave end cap . see end cap air wave lh .
remove the pin that attach the glove box damper to the glove box using needle nose pliers .
release the clips that attach the passenger footwell cover to the ip carrier .
disconnect the electrical wiring harness connectors from the puddle light and emergency speaker .
disconnect the electrical connector from the puddle light , and then disconnect the diagnostic cable from the driver footwell cover . figure 3 . lhd shown , rhd similar
use a flat head screwdriver to apply pressure along the rear edge of the airbag assembly , and while doing so , flex the knee airbag cover surround to release each of the 5 airbag tabs from the cover .
install the lh and rh middle apillar trims . see trim apillar middle lh .
remove the screws that attach the glove box to the ip carrier . note one screw may be inside the glove box and not visible in the following image .
remove the front passenger airbag from the ip carrier . see airbag front passenger .
install the screws that attach the lh rear door trim panel to the lh rear door . 6 nm caution use only the following fastener pn : 148802800a or later 152699899a or later caution make sure that all fasteners are properly torqued and not crossthreaded . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t30 socket ¼ in std ratchet 2 in extension ¼ in torque wrench
position the manual release cable in a vertical orientation , and slide the cable barrel end into the release lever .
repeat steps 1 and 2 for the rh side of the vehicle .
open the rh rear door .
fully open the glove box . note when the glove box is closed , the glove box damper will not clear for removal .
disconnect the electrical harness from the puddle light connector and emergency speaker connector .
remove the footwell cover from the vehicle .
apac vehicles only : disconnect the obdii connector from the driver footwell cover .
remove the t20 bolts that attach the front passenger knee airbag cover to the vehicle .
install the driver knee airbag into the cover . note push the tabs into the cover from the side facing the bulkhead , and then push down the remaining tabs into the cover until fully seated .
release the clips that attach the glove box to the ip carrier .
if the new ip carrier does not have tweeter holes , the tweeter connectors must be taped back to harness before the replacement carrier is installed .
install the screw cover to the front of the armrest .
pivot the manual release cable collar to a horizontal orientation , and press the collar into the trim panel . note make sure the manual release cable is routed underneath the door harness .
remove the center bolts that attach the hv battery through the hv battery center rail ski cover .
release the clips that attach the main instrument panel decor trim , and then remove the trim from the instrument panel .
fold down the armrest .
remove the driver seat from the vehicle . see seat driver .
turn the glove box damper 90 degrees counterclockwise , and then remove the glove box damper from the glove box .
release the clips that attach the puddle light to the passenger footwell cover , and then remove the puddle light from the footwell cover .
release the tabs that attach the driver footwell cover to the vehicle , and then remove the footwell cover from the vehicle . figure 4 . lhd figure 5 . rhd figure 6 . lhd figure 7 . rhd
remove and discard the t30 patchbolts that attach the front passenger knee airbag cover to the vehicle . caution support the front passenger knee airbag cover while releasing the fasteners , as the airbag is still connected to an electrical connector .
pivot the airbag into the cover until the 5 tabs at the rear of the airbag lock into place
disconnect the electrical harness from the glove box solenoid connector , the damper connector , and the puddle light connector . note 2 of the electrical connectors are accessed from the bottom of the instrument panel .
remove the screws that attach the glove box to the ip carrier . note use of the following tools is recommended : torx t20 socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 4 in extension
remove the lh and rh front seats . see seat driver . caution make sure to disconnect 12v power before disconnecting the seat electrical harnesses .
install the front passenger airbag from the ip carrier . see airbag front passenger .
raise the window and close the door .
lift the trim panel , compress the lh front door inner belt seal slightly , and then hook the three trim panel tabs into the top edge of the door .
remove the bolts that attach the hv battery lh and rh support brackets to the vehicle .
use a plastic trim tool to release the cup holder from the locking tabs .
remove the driver headrest trim . see trim headrest driver .
position the glove box damper onto the glove box by turning it 90 degrees clockwise .
reconnect the diagnostic cable to the driver footwell cover , and then reconnect the electrical connector to the puddle light . figure 8 . lhd shown , rhd similar
release the clip that attaches the front passenger knee airbag cover to the vehicle .
install the driver knee airbag assembly . see airbag knee driver .
remove the glove box from the vehicle .
position the lower gap hider on the ip carrier , and then install the tabs and clips that attach the gap hider to the carrier .
move the electrical harness connector for the puddle lamp out the hole in the bottom of the trim panel .
remove the front center bolt that attaches the hv battery to the vehicle .
lift up on the cup holder and remove it from the vehicle .
release the clip that attaches the electrical harness connector to the seat back hinge bracket .
remove the driver seat back shell from the seat . see shell seat back driver .
close the glove box so that the glove box damper engages with the glove box lid .
apac vehicles only : reconnect the obdii connector to the driver footwell cover .
partially release the front passenger knee airbag cover from the vehicle . caution carefully release the corner clip , as it can be easily damaged . figure 1 . take care when releasing the highlighted clip
bring the glove box into the vehicle , and then connect the electrical harness to the glove box solenoid connector , the damper connector , and the puddle light connector . note 2 of the electrical connectors are accessed from the bottom of the instrument panel . caution route the electrical harness from the puddle lamp forward of the divider at the linkages .
install the lh and rh air wave bezel caps . see end cap air wave lh .
position the driver knee airbag cover on the ip carrier , and then install the clips that attach the cover to the carrier .
install the lh front door puddle lamp . see puddle light front door lh .
remove the bolts that attach the front of the hv battery to the vehicle .
repeat steps 103 through 106 for the rh shear plate .
install a new cup holder into the armrest . note press firmly on the edges of the cup holder to engage the locking tabs .
remove the bolt that attaches the seat back hinge bracket to the rh seat back . 45 nm
remove the driver seat back trim retainers from the driver seat back frame .
install the pin that attaches the glove box damper to the glove box . note make sure that the glove box damper pin is fully seated , and not to bump the glove box damper , when installing the glove box .
position the footwell cover for installation by securing the front tabs to the driver knee air bag assembly , and then install the clips and the screw that attach the driver footwell cover to the vehicle . 2.5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t20 socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 4 in extension figure 9 . lhd figure 10 . rhd
disconnect the electrical connector from the front passenger knee airbag , and then remove the airbag cover from the vehicle .
make sure that the glove box damper pin is fully seated , and not to bump the glove box damper when installing the glove box .
remove the glove box from the vehicle .
position the rh defrost duct cover on the ip carrier , and then install the tabs that attach the cover to the carrier .
make sure that the puddle lamp and map pocket ambient light illuminate when connected .
remove the bolts that attach the hv battery to the vehicle . note record the positions of any installed washers , as they will be reinstalled to the same locations during the installation procedure .
return the armrest to the upright position .
release the clips that attach the 2nd row seat back bezel to the seat back .
remove the lower flap that covers the outboard corner of the driver seat seat back frame . note pull the trim straight up , off of the retaining tabs to release it .
release the metal tabs that attach the front passenger knee airbag to the airbag cover , and then remove the cover .
fasten the clips that attach the glove box to the ip carrier .
bring the glove box into the vehicle , and then connect the electrical harness to the glove box solenoid connector , the damper connector , and the puddle light connector . note 2 of the electrical connectors are accessed from the bottom of the instrument panel . note route the puddle lamp electrical harness as illustrated . figure 1 . glove box harness connectors figure 2 . puddle lamp harness routing
position the lh defrost duct cover on the ip carrier , and then install the tabs that attach the cover to the carrier .
with an assistant , raise the vehicle and remove the hv battery from underneath the vehicle .
close the rh rear door .
remove the push clip and release the clips that attach the 2nd row seat latch bezel to the seat back .
remove the upper flap that covers the outboard corner of the driver seat seat back frame . note pull the lower section of trim away from the retaining tab to release it , then pull the trim straight up off of the upper retaining tab .
install the passenger knee airbag into the airbag cover by installing the rear tabs first , and then press down against the airbag while pushing upwards on the edge of the cover .
install the screws that attach the glove box to the ip carrier . 2.3 nm
make sure that the glove box damper pin is fully seated . caution do not bump the glove box damper when installing the glove box .
position the rh side window defroster duct on the ip carrier , and then install the bolt that attaches the duct to the carrier . 2.3 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 2 in extension ratchet/torque wrench torx t20 socket
remove the hv battery cover gasket . see seal perimeter hv battery .
unzip the rh 2nd row seat back cover , and then remove the cover from the seat .
remove the lower flap covering the inboard corner of the driver seat seat back frame . note pull the trim straight up , off of the retaining tabs to release it .
install the electrical connector to the airbag . caution support the front passenger knee airbag cover during installation .
remove the lh and rh middle apillar trim panels . see trim apillar middle lh .
close the glove box .
position the lh side window defroster duct on the ip carrier , and then install the bolt that attaches the duct to the carrier . 2.3 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 2 in extension ratchet/torque wrench torx t20 socket
install the screws that attach the trim panel to the door . 6 nm caution use only the following fastener pn : 148802800a or later 152699899a or later caution make sure that all fasteners are properly torqued and not crossthreaded . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t30 socket 4 in extension ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench figure 9 . rear figure 10 . middle figure 11 . front
install the screws that attach the trim panel to the door . 6 nm caution use only the following fastener pn : 148802800a or later 152699899a or later caution make sure that all fasteners are properly torqued and not crossthreaded . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t30 socket 4 in extension ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench figure 11 . rear figure 12 . middle figure 13 . front
turn the adjustable elements clockwise to remove them from the penthouse cover . note keep the adjustable elements so that they can be installed onto the replacement hv battery .
remove the upper flap that covers the inboard corner of the driver seat seat back frame . note pull the lower section of trim away from the retaining tab to release it , and then pull the trim straight up off of the upper retaining tab .
position the front passenger knee airbag cover on the vehicle . note carefully install the corner clip , as it can be easily damaged . figure 2 . take care when installing the highlighted clip
remove the lh and rh lower apillar trim panels . see trim apillar lower lh .
install the screws that attach the glove box to the ip carrier . 2.3 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t20 socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 4 in extension
install the clips that attach the steering column upper gap hider to the steering column shroud .
install the reflector to the rear edge of the trim panel and the screw cover to the front of the armrest .
release the clip and disconnect the lh outer hv battery supply hose fitting from the lh front of the hv battery platter enclosure .
disconnect the electrical harness from the windshield washer pump reservoir and level connector .
pull the driver seat seat back trim away from the driver seat side airbag to gain access to the air bag electrical connector .
install the clip that attaches the front passenger knee airbag cover to the vehicle . note make sure that the clips on the rear edge of the front passenger knee airbag cover engage the ip carrier
release the clips that attach the instrument panel service panel to the instrument panel , and then disconnect the temperature sensor connector .
install the steering column upper shroud on the instrument panel .
install the front lh door tweeter . see tweeter front door lh .
release the clip and disconnect the lh inner hv battery supply hose fitting from the lh front of the hv battery platter enclosure .
remove the screws that attach the ip carrier to the cross car beam at the front passenger airbag . 2.3 nm
disconnect the driver seat side airbag and pull the orange tabs down to release the connector .
install the new t30 patchbolts that attach the front passenger knee airbag cover to the vehicle . 2.3 nm
remove the lh and rh floor mats .
install the clips that attach the steering column upper gap hider to the steering column .
close the door and verify the operation of the manual door release lever , that the door latch releases smoothly and easily .
release the clip and disconnect the rh inner hv battery supply hose fitting from the rh front of the hv battery platter enclosure .
remove the screws that attach the ip carrier to the cross car beam . 2.3 nm
remove the drive seat inboard side shield . see side shield inboard driver seat
remove the drive seat inboard side shield . see side shield outboard driver seat
remove the bolt that attaches the bottom of the lumbar support to the seat back frame . 5 nm note the bolt is located below the lumbar ecu . removing this bolt allows ease of access for the following step . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
install the t20 bolts that attach the front passenger knee airbag cover to the vehicle . 2 nm
release the clip and disconnect the rh outer hv battery supply hose fitting from the rh front of the hv battery platter enclosure , and remove the hose assembly from the hv battery .
move the driver seat to the rearmost and lowest position .
move the electrical wiring harness for the touchscreen through the ip carrier .
move the driver 's seat fully forward , and adjust the seat cushion height to maximum . caution do not allow the seat headrest to compress the sun visor as it might crack the mirror .
disconnect 12v power . see 12v/lv power
use the clip tool to sperate the diamond cover from seat frame , rotate clockwise and remove it from the lh front seat .
release the tabs that attach the bottom of the lumbar support to the seat back frame .
remove the driver knee airbag cover . see airbag knee driver .
remove the bolts that attach the hv battery lh and rh support brackets to the vehicle .
release the clip and disconnect the rh inner hv battery return hose fitting from the rh rear of the hv battery platter enclosure .
open the rear rh door .
move the driver seat and the front passenger seat fully forward . note note the position of the driver seat and the front passenger seat prior to movement so that both seats are restored to their original position during installation .
release the clips that attach the inboard side shield to the seat , and then pull the shield back to remove the shield from the seat .
remove the 2nd row center seatbelt assembly . see seatbelt 2nd row center .
remove the ip carrier from the cross car beam , and then remove the ip carrier from the vehicle .
use the screwdriver to disconnect lh front seat buckle connectors .
install the diamond cover from the lh front seat .
remove the nuts that attach the driver seat side airbag to the seat back frame . 5.4 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket ratchet/torque wrench
remove the front passenger footwell cover . see cover footwell passenger .
remove the inboard side shield : release the front clip that attaches the inboard side shield to the seat inner seat rail . release the rear portion of the inboard side shield from the inner seat rail , and then rotate the side shield upwards . pass the buckle out through the slot on the inboard side shield , and then remove the inboard side shield from the vehicle .
while pressing the lh and rh tabs towards the lh side of the vehicle , lift the front edge of the seat cushion .
remove the bolts that attach the outer 2nd row rail to the body , and then remove the rail from the vehicle . 24 nm
remove the 2nd row buckle assembly : lh : see buckle 2nd row lh . rh and center : see buckle 2nd row center .
unhook the clips that attach the lower section of the seat back and move the seat back flap away from the working area .
release the tabs that attach the pivot sleeve to the seat back assembly pivot pin , and then remove the sleeve from the pin .
release the cable clip that attaches the latch bracket to the seat back .
clean the lower inside of the windshield .
remove the bolt that attaches the driver seat outboard side shield to the seat frame . tip :
remove the diamond cover clips from the lh front seat .
install the drive seat outboard side shield . see side shield outboard driver seat
release the parking brake using toolbox . see parking brake caliper rear lh .
carefully pull the driver seat side airbag chute from the seat back frame . caution do not remove the airbag from the airbag chute .
remove the passenger knee airbag cover . see airbag knee front passenger .
verify that the glove box opens normally through the touchscreen .
install the lh and rh instrument panel end cap s . see end cap instrument panel lh .
release the clip and disconnect the lh inner hv battery return hose fitting from the lh rear of the hv battery platter enclosure .
disconnect the electrical connector s on each end of the seat cushion , and then remove the seat cushion from the vehicle .
release the clips that attach the bolster bracket , and the remove the bracket from the vehicle .
release the clips that attach the bolster bracket , and remove the bracket from the vehicle .
remove the bolts that attach the lh inner 2nd row rail to the penthouse cover and the body , and then remove the rail from the vehicle .
remove the seat back shell from the seat . see shell seat back driver .
release the clip that attaches the bracket stud to the seat back .
align the tabs of the ip carrier with the channels in the body below the windshield .
pull the driver seat outboard side shield away from the seat frame to release the clip that attaches the side shield to the center of the seat frame .
remove the diamond cover clips from the lh front seat .
remove the seat upholstery by pulling the bottom of the seat back trim away from the seat back frame . note make sure the heater harness and the seat back trim is clear of the seat back frame .
remove the rh footwell vent duct .
if removed earlier , put the customer 's belongings back into the glove box .
inspect the penthouse probe lid cover on the penthouse for the presence of a breather .
disconnect the electrical harness from the heated seat connector for the rh 2nd row seat back , if equipped .
handtighten the exposed adjustable elements on the penthouse cover counterclockwise so that they are fully engaged . caution handtighten only .
remove the bolts that attach the 2nd row lh seat back latch to the seat back , and then remove the latch from the seat back . 40 nm
install the foam halfcircle into the center of ip carrier at base of windshield .
unhook the lower flaps that cover the lh and rh lower corners of the seat back frame .
slide the driver seat outboard side shield rearwards to release the clips that attach the side shield to rear of the seat frame .
disconnect lh front seat buckle connector and remove the diamond cover .
slide the airbag chute with the airbag still inside through the seatback foam , and then carefully remove the airbag from the airbag chute . caution make sure that the driver side airbag mounting studs do not catch in the holes of the airbag chute . caution handle the airbag with extreme care when removing it from the airbag chute . the airbag is configured/folded in a specific manner and will need to be replaced if it is dropped , altered or manipulated in any way .
open the glove box from the display , and then power off the vehicle .
if the breather is missing , install one now . note after installing the breather , if necessary , return to the procedure that required removal of the 2nd row lower seat cushion .
remove the nuts that attach the rh seat back hinge bracket to the body . 18 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket 4 in extension
disconnect the electrical harness from the heated seat connector for the lh 2nd row seat back assembly , if equipped .
install the lh inner 2nd row rail to the body , and then install the bolts that attach the rail to the penthouse cover and the body . 24 nm 24 nm
unhook the upper flaps that cover the lh and rh lower corners of the seat back frame . tip : pull the lower section of trim away from the retaining tab to release the trim , and then pull the upper trim straight up to release it from the upper retaining tab .
disconnect the electrical harness from the backrest and cushion adjust switch connector , if so equipped .
install the diamond cover .
release the clips that attach the front of the package tray to the body .
release the strap that attaches the driver seat seat back trim to the seat back foam . caution be careful when releasing the strap to avoid damage .
release the clip and disconnect the powertrain supply hose fitting from the rh rear underside of the penthouse .
position the seat cushion in the vehicle .
lift the right side of the rh seat back assembly up , move forward and to the right , and pull the inner pivot out of the lh seat back assembly .
remove the nuts that attach the lh seat back assembly hinge bracket to the body . 18 nm
install the 2nd row buckle assembly : lh : see buckle 2nd row lh . rh and center : see buckle 2nd row center .
release the clips that attach the outboard side of the seat back cover to the seat back frame , and then expose the air bag connector . tip : rotate the clips and release them from the frame from the inside out .
remove the driver seat outboard side shield from the vehicle .
install the lh front seat buckle connector .
pull the package tray forward , and then lift up the package tray to access the seat back striker . note support the package tray in the raised position .
release the clips that attach the driver seat seat back trim to the seat back foam .
remove the center console . center console .
verify that the glove box door opens normally through the touchscreen .
tighten the bolts on either side of the high voltage controller low voltage connector . 12.5 nm
connect the electrical connector s on each side of the seat cushion .
remove the rh 2nd row seat back from the vehicle .
lift the left side of the lh seat back assembly up , move forward and to the left , and pull the inner pivot out of the rh seat back assembly .
pull the seat upholstery away from the side airbag connector then disconnect the electrical harness from the driver side airbag connector .
if the driver seat outboard side shield is being replaced , remove the back rest and cushion adjust switch from the outboard side shield . see switch back rest and cushion adjust driver seat .
install the diamond cover clips from the lh front seat .
release the lh and rh rear brake calipers using special tool . see parking brake caliper rear lh .
remove the bolts that attach the 2nd row rh seat back striker to the body , and then remove the striker from the vehicle . 16 nm
remove the driver seat seat back trim from the seat back foam .
return the customer 's belongings in the glove box , if needed .
handtighten the adjustable elements on the penthouse cover counterclockwise so that they are fully engaged . caution handtighten only .
insert the seat belt buckles through the seat cushion holes .
remove the lh seat back assembly from the vehicle .
remove the bolt that attaches the bottom of the lumbar support to the seat assembly . 5 nm note the bolt is located below the lumbar ecu . removing this bolt allows ease of access for the following step . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket
if a new driver seat outboard side shield is being installed , install the back rest and cushion adjust switch to the outboard side shield . see switch back rest and cushion adjust driver seat .
connect lh front seat buckle connector .
install the driver seat seat back trim to the seat back foam .
remove the glove box .
install a new hv battery cover gasket . see seal perimeter hv battery .
remove the bolts that attach the seat back striker to the body , and then remove the striker from the vehicle . 16 nm
slide the seat cushion inward , align the front guide tabs to the locking tabs , and then push the seat cushion into the tabs .
disconnect the electrical harness from the lumbar valve pack and ecu .
remove and discard the nuts that attach the side airbag to the seat back frame , and then pull the studs of the airbag out of the seat back frame . 5.4 nm caution do not remove the airbag from the airbag chute .
bring the driver seat outboard side shield to the driver seat , and then connect the electrical harness to the backrest and cushion adjust switch connector , if so equipped .
remove the driver knee airbag . see airbag knee driver .
install the clips that attach the driver seat seat back trim to the seat back foam . note make sure the clips are secured .
remove the lh footwell vent duct .
make sure that the seat cushion is fully seated with a push and pull test near the tabs .
slide the driver seat outboard side shield forward to fasten the clips that attach the side shield to rear of the seat frame .
install the drive seat inboard side shield . see side shield inboard driver seat .
remove the front passenger footwell cover . see cover footwell passenger or cover footwell passenger .
install the strap that attaches the driver seat seat back trim to the seat back foam . note make sure the strap is secured .
move the driver seat and the front passenger seat to their original position .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the seat frame .
push the driver seat outboard side shield into the seat frame to fasten the clip that attaches the side shield to the center of the seat frame .
remove the passenger knee airbag . see airbag knee front passenger .
install the driver side airbag into the airbag chute , and then insert the airbag chute with the airbag inside through the slot in the seat back foam . caution make sure that the driver side airbag mounting studs extend out of the holes of the chute . caution handle the airbag with extreme care when installing it into the airbag chute . the airbag is configured/folded in a specific manner and will need to be replaced if it is dropped , altered or manipulated in any way . note refer to the following video for proper care when installing the driver side airbag into the airbag chute , and when installing the chute through the seat foam . see side airbag installation video .
manuever the seat to gain access to the underside .
install the bolt that attaches the driver seat outboard side shield to the seat frame . 2 nm tip :
install the driver seat seat back and foam onto the seat back frame . note start by sliding the foam trim straight onto the seat back frame . ensure the posts for the headrests engage the seat back foam . ensure the heater harness and lower trim that engages the frame are pushed through to the back side of the frame .
simultaneously press the adjustment button on the adjustment guide and insert a small pick into the opening on the guide lock . tip : it might be helpful to perform this procedure with the lh/60 seat folded down .
remove the 2nd row center headrest . see headrest 2nd row center .
disconnect the electrical wiring harness from the seat heater connectors .
remove the 2nd row armrest . see armrest 2nd row .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the seat frame , and then remove the electrical harness from the seat frame .
install the driver seat side airbag studs into the seat back frame . note the studs should line up with the two round holes . the elongated hole is not used for this part .
pull the headrest upwards to remove it from the vehicle .
use a plastic trim tool to release the guide lock from the 2nd row seat .
release the clips that attach the seat heater connectors to the seat underside , and then separate the connectors from the seat underside .
release the clips and tabs that attach the 2nd row armrest closeout to the 2nd row seat , and then remove the armrest closeout .
lift the 12v cap straight up from over the high voltage controller connector on the rh side of the penthouse , and then remove the 12v cap from the vehicle .
return the driver seat to its original position .
install the nuts that attach the driver seat airbag to the seat back frame . 5.4 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket ratchet/torque wrench
insert the headrest into the guides on the seat and then press down until it is fully secure . warning make sure the headrest is fully secure and locked into the guides .
fold down the lh 2nd row seat .
release the lh 2nd row seat back and fold it slightly forward .
open all four doors and move the front lh and rh seats fully forward .
partially recline the driver seatback to provide more working room .
remove the guide lock from the vehicle .
disconnect the electrical connector from the seat belt buckle .
connect driver seat side airbag electrical connector .
move the seats back to their starting position .
lower all four windows .
pull the 2nd row side bolster inward , and then move the bolster up to remove from the vehicle . warning the retaining clips may become dislodged when performing this procedure . wear eye protection to avoid personal injury .
use a pry tool to release the clips that attach the lh 2nd row seat back handle bezel to the lh 2nd row seat back handle assembly , and then remove the bezel from the handle assembly .
fold down the rh 2nd row seatback assembly .
use a plastic trim tool to release the adjustment guide from the 2nd row seat .
remove the lh 2nd row buckle . see buckle 2nd row lh .
depress the material on the lh side of the outboard headrest post to expose the retaining spring that restrains the post into the driver seatback .
fully insert the guide lock into the seat so that the opening on the guide lock faces towards the rh side of the vehicle .
remove the lh 2nd row seat back . see seat back 2nd row lh .
release the clips that attach the backrest foam to the seat back frame . note release the clips at the bottom and work upwards .
install the tabs that attach the bottom of the lumbar support to the seat back frame .
move both front seats fully forward .
remove and discard the bolster plastic bracket from the vehicle . note the bracket might have come out with the bolster .
install the lh 2nd row seat back handle bezel into the lh 2nd row seat back handle assembly , and then fasten the clips that attach the bezel to the handle assembly .
remove the bolt that attaches the 2nd row armrest to the lh 2nd row seat back assembly . 15 nm
remove the adjustment guide from the vehicle .
with the headrest removal tool handle horizontal and the tool tabs pointing down , insert the tabs into the lh side of the outboard headrest post . note the shaft of the tool points to the rear of the vehicle .
install the 2nd row center headrest . see headrest 2nd row center .
remove and discard the patchbolt that attaches the buckle to the seat track , and then remove the buckle . 40 nm
remove the lh 2nd row seat back pivot sleeve . see pivot sleeve seat back 2nd row lh .
remove the bottom of the backrest foam from the seat back frame , and then lift the foam assembly straight up and off the frame .
install the bolt that attaches the bottom of the lumbar support to the seat back frame . 5 nm note the bolt is located below the lumbar ecu . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
release the clip that attaches the electrical connector to the hinge bracket .
install new bolster plastic bracket to the 2nd row seat side bolster . note the bracket is one time use only .
unfold the lh 2nd row seat back so that it is upright and secured .
pull the rh side of the 2nd row center armrest towards the front of the vehicle , and then slide the 2nd row armrest out of the lh 2nd row seat back assembly .
fully insert the adjustment guide into the seat so that the adjustment button faces towards the rh side of the vehicle .
press the headrest removal tool in and down , rotate the tool handle clockwise to vertical to release the spring from the headrest post , and then leave the tool attached .
remove and discard the bolts that attach both sides of the seat back to the seat cushion , and then remove the seat back from the cushion by rotating it away and lifting straight up . 43 nm
remove the lh 2nd row seat back hinge bracket . see bracket hinge seat back 2nd row lh .
release the strap that attaches the driver seat seat back trim to the seat back foam .
remove the glove box . see glove box with knee airbags or glove box without knee airbags .
install the upper flap that covers the outboard corner of the driver seat seat back frame . note pull the flap over the metal tangs to secure it .
remove the bolt that attaches the lh 2nd row seat back hinge bracket to the seat back , and then remove the bracket from the seat back . 45 nm
align the bottom tab , and then push inward to install the bolster .
depress the material on the lh side of the inboard headrest post to expose the retaining spring that restrains the post into the driver seatback .
manuever the seat cushion foam and frame assembly to gain access to the underside .
install the upper flap that covers the inboard corner of the driver seat seat back frame . note pull the lower section of trim away from the retaining tab to release it , and then pull the trim straight up off of the upper retaining tab .
release the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the 2nd row seat cushion edge support bracket .
remove the lh 2nd row seat back latch . see latch seat back 2nd row lh .
with the second headrest removal tool handle horizontal and the tool tabs pointing down , insert the tabs into the lh side of the inboard headrest post . note the shaft of the tool points to the rear of the vehicle .
remove the center 2nd row headrest . see headrest 2nd row center .
release the clip that attaches the lh 2nd row seat back latch control cable to the lh 2nd row seat backplate .
release the clip that attaches the seat occupied sensor to the seat underside , and then separate the sensor from the seat underside .
remove the headrest guide locks .
remove the bolts that attach the lh 2nd row seat back handle assembly to the backplate , and then slide the handle assembly from the backplate .
release the clips that attach the seat cushion foam to the seat suspension .
position the driver seat seat back trim onto the driver seat .
remove the driver headrest trim from the seat . see trim headrest driver .
remove the driver seat back shell . see shell seat back driver .
slide the lh 2nd row seat back handle assembly onto the lh 2nd row seat backplate , and then install the bolts that attach the handle assembly to the backplate . 2 nm
remove the front passenger seat switch . see switch back rest and cushion adjust driver seat .
release the clips that attach the seat cushion foam to the seat cushion frame at the front , inboard , and outboard sides , and then remove the foam from the frame . caution make sure that the seat heater connector and seat occupied sensor assembly does not catch on the seat suspension or frame .
remove the center 2nd row seatbelt . see seatbelt 2nd row center .
install the driver side airbag into the airbag chute , and then insert the airbag chute with the airbag inside through the slot in the seat back foam . caution make sure that the driver side airbag mounting studs extend out of the holes of the chute . caution handle the airbag with extreme care when installing it into the airbag chute . the airbag is configured/folded in a specific manner and will need to be replaced if it is dropped , altered or manipulated in any way . note refer to the following video for proper care when installing the driver side airbag into the airbag pouch , and when installing the pouch through the seat foam . see side airbag installation video .
release the tab on the rh side of the 2nd row lower seat cushion to release the rh front edge of the cushion from the vehicle , and then use the 12v cap to prop the lower cushion .
release the clips that attach the seat back shell to the driver seat , lift up on the shell to unhook it from the seat back frame , and lay the shell back .
release the clips that attach the outboard side of the seat back cover to the seat back frame . tip : rotate the clips and then release them from the frame the inside out .
carefully release the clips that attach the seat cushion and seat back buttons to the driver seat backrest and cushion adjust switch , and then remove the buttons from the outboard side shield .
fasten the clip that attaches the lh 2nd row seat back latch control cable to the lh 2nd row seat backplate .
using clip tool to remove the lumbar button cap .
install the seat cushion foam to the seat cushion frame , and then fasten the clips that attach the foam to the frame at the outboard and inboard sides , and at the front . note make sure that the seat heater connector and seat occupied sensor assembly passes through the seat suspension or frame .
install the clips that attach the driver seat seat back trim to the seat back foam .
release the clips that attach the shell apron to the underside of the seat , and then remove the shell from the seat .
pull the seat upholstery away from the airbag to gain access to the electrical connector and then pull both orange tabs down to release and disconnect the airbag electrical connector .
remove the screws that attach the driver seat backrest and cushion adjust switch to the outboard side shield , and remove the switch from the side shield .
install the lh 2nd row seat back latch . see latch seat back 2nd row lh .
remove the rectangular plastic gimbal using pliers or side cutters . note ensure both knob detents are present and no debris present .
disconnect the electrical harness from the driver seat tilt motor connector .
fasten the clips that attach the seat cushion foam to the seat suspension .
remove the lh 2nd row seat back handle . see handle seat back 2nd row lh .
install the strap that attaches the driver seat seat back trim to the seat back foam .
install the driver seat backrest and cushion adjust switch to the outboard side shield , and then install the screws that attach the switch to the side shield . 1.7 nm
install the 2nd row center seatbelt assembly . see seatbelt 2nd row center .
install the new lumbar button cap .
remove the bolts that attach the driver seat tilt motor to the seat frame .
install the seat occupied sensor to the seat underside , and then fasten the clip that attaches the sensor to the seat underside .
install the driver seat seat back and foam assembly onto the seat back frame . note start by sliding the foam trim straight onto the seat back frame . ensure the posts for the headrests engage the seat back foam . ensure the heater harness and lower trim that engages the frame are pushed through to the back side of the frame .
install the seat cushion and seat back buttons to the outboard side shield , and then fasten the clips that attach the seat cushion and seat back buttons to the driver seat backrest and cushion adjust switch .
install the 2nd row lh seat back hinge bracket . see bracket hinge seat back 2nd row lh .
remove the bolt that attaches the driver seat tilt motor adjustment arm to the seat cushion tilt tube bracket , and then remove the driver seat tilt motor from the seat frame .
fasten the clips that attach the backrest foam to the seat back frame . note fasten the clips at the top and work down .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the rear of the driver seat to the body . caution use only the torx plus t45 bit to remove the seat bolts .
install the seat back to the seat cushion , and then install new bolts to attach the seat back to the cushion . 43 nm
use the gantry and hframe hoist to lift the hv battery from the manual lift battery table .
if the replacement hv battery has an hv battery center rail ski , go to step 130 .
inspect the top cover of the hv battery for the presence of nvh pads . if the hv battery already has nvh pads , continue to the next step . if the hv battery does not have nvh pads , install the nvh pads . see nvh pads hv battery . note add correction code 16103101 to the repair order separately . the labor time to install the nvh pads is not included in this parent procedure .
install the hv battery alignment rods ; 2 at the front of the vehicle and 2 at the hv battery near the penthouse .
with an assistant , position the hv battery underneath the vehicle .
tighten the bolts on either side of the high voltage controller low voltage connector . 12.5 nm
lower the vehicle to the hv battery , and with an assistant , align the holes with the alignment rods . note do not fully lower the vehicle onto the hv battery . the battery will still need to slightly move to install the bolts in the following steps . caution make sure that the coolant hoses and hv harnesses are not caught on the alignment rods or sandwiched between the hv battery and the vehicle .
handtighten the lh and rh bolts that attach the hv battery to the body . note install the washers to the locations recorded earlier during removal .
handtighten the bolts that attach the front of the hv battery to the vehicle .
handtighten the front center bolt that attaches the hv battery to the vehicle .
remove the hv battery alignment rods .
handtighten the bolts that attach the hv battery lh and rh support brackets to the vehicle .
with an assistant , remove the end bolts that attach the center rail ski to the hv battery , and then remove the rail ski from the battery .
handtighten the bolts that attach the center portion of the hv battery through the hv battery center rail ski cover .
use the gantry and hframe hoist to lower the hv battery into the shipping container .
install and handtighten the smaller bolts that would attach the lh and rh shear plates to the body . note do not install the shear plates at this time . figure 1 . lh shown , rh similar
use the gantry and hframe hoist to lift the hv battery out of the shipping container .
install the lower flap that covers the outboard corner of the driver seat seat back frame . note pull the flap over the metal tangs to secure it .
if the replacement hv battery has an hv battery center rail ski , go to step 20 .
install the lower flap covering the inboard corner of the driver seat seat back frame . note pull the flap over the metal tangs to secure it .
remove the headrest from the driver seatback .
install the driver seat back trim retainers to the driver seat back frame .
install the bolts that attach the center rail ski to the hv battery . 32 nm
rotate the headrest removal tool handles counterclockwise to horizontal , and then remove the tools from the driver seatback .
install the seat back shell onto the seat . see shell seat back driver .
remove the lh and rh front main carpets from the vehicle .
align the posts of the headrest with the holes in the driver seatback . note the detents in the headrest posts are to the lh side .
install the driver headrest trim . see trim headrest driver .
for models equipped with ptc heater only : measure the resistance at the rear hv header for the hv battery ptc heater and a/c compressor harness connector between ptc b+ and ptc b to verify whether a ptc heater fuse is installed inside the penthouse . if the resistance measured is less than 50 kohm , this indicates that a ptc heater fuse is installed in the penthouse and no further action is required . if the resistance measured is infinite , this indicates that no ptc heater fuse is installed inside the penthouse . if this is the case , move forward with the installation of the ptc heater fuse before continuing with this procedure . see fuse cabin heater hv battery .
remove the lumbar support assembly from the driver 's seat back . see lumbar support backrest driver seat .
move the seat fully rearward .
clean the roof rack installation locations with isopropyl alcohol wipes , and allow to dry for 1 minute before continuing .
removal procedure is the reverse of installation . see roof rack .
press the headrest in firmly so that it is fully seated with a click .
install the driver seat into the vehicle . see seat driver .
disconnect the headliner electrical harness from the lh body controller module connector . lhd shown , rhd similar
if the replacement hv battery has an hv battery center rail ski , go to step 13 .
remove and discard the clip that attaches the recliner tube to the frame .
remove the driver seat headrest trim . see trim headrest driver .
release the clips at the front of the seat track rear cover that attach the cover to the seat track , and then slide the cover rearward off the track .
release the clips at the rear of the seat track front cover that attach the cover to the seat track , and then slide the cover forward off the track .
use the icon on the top of the pads to determine which corner of the vehicle that the pad and matching antiabrasion tape should be applied to .
clean the installation area with isopropyl alcohol wipes .
remove the middle apillar trim panel . see trim apillar middle lh .
pull up on the headrest to confirm that it is secure in the driver seatback .
use a rubber hammer to tap the recliner tube where the clip was located earlier , and then remove the tube from the frame . note the removal of the tube might require several taps with the rubber hammer in order to get the tube out of the seat .
slide the seat track rear cover forward over the seat track , and then fasten the clips that attach the cover to the seat track .
slide the seat track front cover rearward over the seat track , and then fasten the clips that attach the cover to the seat track .
install the antiabrasion tape on the front lh side of the vehicle : measure 18 mm back from the front edge of the glass roof to locate the arrow on the glass . caution the measurement for the front and rear crossbar locations are different . align the arrow on the glass with the arrow on the antiabrasion tape , then apply the antiabrasion tape to the vehicle so that it follows the trim line .
return the driver seatback to its original position .
remove the front passenger airbag . see airbag front passenger .
disconnect the instrument panel harness from the lh body controller module connectors , and then remove the harness clip from the instrument panel near the lh body controller . lhd shown , rhd similar
install the outer bolts that attach the center rail ski to the hv battery . 32 nm
remove the bolt that attaches the recliner motor to the seat back frame .
return the seat to the original position .
perform the previous step on the front rh side of the vehicle .
install the driver seat tilt motor to the seat frame , and then install the bolt that attaches the driver seat tilt motor adjustment arm to the seat cushion tilt tube bracket . 16 nm
install the seat heater connectors to the seat underside , and then fasten the clips that attach the connectors to the seat underside .
move the seat fully rearward .
remove the recliner motor from the frame .
install the antiabrasion tape on the rear lh side of the vehicle : measure 42 mm forward from the rear edge of the glass roof to locate the arrow on the glass . align the arrow on the glass with the arrow on the antiabrasion tape , then apply the antiabrasion tape to the vehicle so that it follows the trim line .
use a trim tool to release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the seat frame .
install the bolts that attach the driver seat tilt motor to the seat frame . 7.5 nm
install the seatbelt buckle . see buckle 1st row lh .
disconnect the electrical harness from the steering column control module connector .
remove the plugs from the coolant outlet hose and the powertrain return hose , immediately connect the male and female fittings , and then fasten the clip . note perform a pushpullpush test on the fittings to make sure that they are secure .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the front of the driver seat to the body . caution use only the torx plus t45 bit to remove the seat bolts .
install the recliner motor onto the seat back frame , and handtighten the bolt that attaches the motor to the frame
remove the lower flap covering the outboard corner of the seat back frame note pull the trim straight up , off of the retaining tabs to release
perform the previous step on the rear rh side of the vehicle .
release the clip that attaches the seat trim to the lumbar support assembly .
connect the electrical harness to the driver seat tilt motor connector .
remove and discard the patchbolt that attaches the seat height motor to the seat cushion frame .
install the electrical harness to the seat frame , and then fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the seat frame .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the steering column .
adjust the seat cushion height to maximum . caution do not allow the seat headrest to compress the sun visor as it might crack the mirror .
install the recliner tube into the seat back frame , through the recliner motor , and to the other side of the frame . note use the rubber hammer to tap the recliner tube so that the tube extends 16mm out of the seat back frame .
remove the upper flap covering the outboard corner of the seat back frame note pull the lower section of trim away from the retaining tab to release , then pull the trim straight up off of the upper retaining tab
install the roof rack rail clips and pads on all corners of the vehicle : use the supplied trim tool to carefully lift the seal at the arrow location then insert a rail clip so that it is aligned with the arrow on the antiabrasion tape . ensure that the rail clip is properly secured to the jhook under the roof glass then remove the trim tool . make sure the clip is centered on the arrow . using the icon on the pad to identify which corner of the vehicle it goes to , place the appropriate pad over the rail clip so that the clip and threads are exposed .
release the clips that attach the lumbar pump pouch to the seat frame , and then separate the pouch from the seat back .
remove and discard the patchbolt that attaches the seat height motor to the rear rh link , and then remove the motor from the seat . tip : slide the seat height motor down and out , away from the wiring harness .
remove the clips that attach the lh side of the main carpet to the footwell area .
disconnect the instrument panel harness from the hvac fan assembly motor connector .
remove the plugs from the rear drive unit inverter inlet hose and the lh underside of the penthouse , immediately connect the male and female fittings , and then fasten the clip . note perform a pushpullpush test on the fittings to make sure that they are secure .
move the seat fully forward . caution do not allow the seat headrest to compress the sun visor as it might crack the mirror .
with assistance , install a new clip onto the recliner tube . note use a 12mm deep socket and rubber hammer to tap the clip onto the recliner tube . have an assistant use another hammer at the other end of the tube to oppose the tapping .
remove the outer clips securing the seat upholstery to the seat back frame note 2x clips , to release , rotate the clips off of the frame from the inside out
place the front and rear crossbars onto the front and rear pads so that the threads on the clips are exposed in the opening of the ends of the crossbars . note the front crossbar is longer than the rear crossbar .
remove the bolt that attaches the lumbar support assembly to the seat frame . 5 nm
install the seat height motor to the rear rh link , and then install a new patchbolt to attach the motor to the link . 18 nm
remove the clips that attach the rh side of the main carpet to the footwell area .
release the clips that attach the instrument panel harness to the hvac fan assembly .
use a plastic trim tool to release the push clips that attach the trailer hitch cover to the vehicle . note on some vehicles the clips may have key notches instead of being push clips . on these vehicles , use a flathead screwdriver to turn the push clip until it is in an unclasped position .
remove the key hole cover from the ball neck .
tighten the bolt that attaches the recliner motor to the seat back frame . 5 nm
pull lh front seat upholstery away from the air bag to gain access to the air bag electrical connector
open the driver 's door and fully lower the window .
hand tighten the wingnuts onto the clips on all four corners of the vehicle ; do not torque a wingnut until the wingnut on the other side of the vehicle is already hand tightened .
slide the lumbar support assembly down , then press the bottom of the lumbar support assembly in , and at the same time , slide the lumbar support assembly up . pivot the bottom of the lumbar support assembly out from the frame , and pull the lumbar support assembly down and out of the frame .
install a new patchbolt to attach the seat height motor to the seat cushion frame . 23 nm
fold the cabin main carpet backwards to access the instrument panel electrical harness .
install the rear hv battery skid plate , but only handtighten the fasteners . see skid plate hv battery rear .
disconnect the seat electrical harness connector from the lh body controller .
disconnect the trailer hitch jumper harness and body harness electrical connectors from the trailer hitch ecu .
remove the trailer hitch cover .
insert the key into the locking cylinder and turn the key to align with the unlock icon .
install the lumbar support assembly to the driver 's seat back . see lumbar support backrest driver seat .
disconnect lh front seat air bag note 1x connector , pull both of the orange tabs down to release the connector
release the clips that attach the rear underhood apron to the vehicle , and then remove the apron from the vehicle .
torque all wingnuts to their proper specification . ensure the marking on the wingnuts align with the markings on the crossbars to lock the crossbars using the provided keys . caution to avoid damaging the roof glass , do not overtorque the fasteners . 3.5 nm
install the side airbag to the seat frame , and then install new nuts to attach the airbag to the frame . 5.4 nm +/ 0.9 nm caution use only hand tools to torque the nuts . do not use impact tools .
disconnect the headliner electrical harness from the lh body controller module connector .
release the clip that attaches the instrument panel harness to the ptc heater . lhd shown , rhd similar
open the lh rear door . caution do not damage any components while working around this area .
release the clips that attach the seat electrical harness to the body .
clean the installation surface of the spoiler with isopropyl alcohol wipes , and allow it to dry before continuing . note clean any moisture or contaminates that might be present from rain or vehicle washing , otherwise this might result in poor adhesion of the rear spoiler . note if the trunk surface requires any paint correction , request assistance from the body shop or shop detailer before the installation of the rear spoiler . note it is recommended to perform this procedure indoors . acceptable ambient and part temperature for installation is 1543 degrees celsius for proper adhesion .
clean the spoiler installation surface with isopropyl alcohol wipes , and allow it to dry before continuing . note clean any moisture or contaminates that might be present from rain or vehicle washing , otherwise this might result in poor adhesion of the rear spoiler . note if the trunk surface requires any paint correction , request assistance from the body shop or shop detailer before the installation of the rear spoiler . note it is recommended to perform this procedure indoors . acceptable ambient and part temperature for installation is 1543 degrees celsius for proper adhesion .
use a towel and/or compressed air to clean the area surrounding the spoiler . warning to avoid personal injury , eye protection must be worn while using compressed air .
using a 10 mm deep socket , remove the nut that attaches the trailer hitch ecu to the stud on the trailer hitch assembly .
turn the steering wheel fully to the left to provide access to the working area .
maneuver the trailer hitch cover in place , and then install the clips that attach it to the vehicle .
while firmly holding the bottom of the ball neck , pull the locking cylinder out approximately 0.5 cm , and turn it clockwise until the lock icon shifts to the top . at this point , the locking cylinder is unlocked in the `` open '' position and the ball neck drops out of the trailer hitch housing . warning be careful when turning the locking cylinder . if it does not lock into the `` open '' position , it automatically retracts into its original `` closed '' position and can pinch your fingers .
release the clips that attach the electrical harnesses to the center rear bracket assembly .
disconnect the recliner motor note 1x connector
if equipped , ensure the first responder loop label is visible after installing the rear apron .
use the provided keys to lock both crossbars in place .
install the bolt that attaches the bottom of the lumbar support to the seat assembly . 5 nm note the bolt is located below the lumbar ecu . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket
release the clips that attach the headliner electrical harness and move it aside .
release the clips that attach the instrument panel harness to the top portion of the cross car beam , and then release the hvac electrical harness from the instrument panel harness .
handtighten the 5th lh rear inner bolt that attaches the hv battery to the body . note lift up the rear main carpet for access .
with an assistant , remove the seat from the vehicle . note lift the seat , tilt the seat back , rotate the cushion toward the door , and remove the seat from the vehicle , cushion first . caution if discarding the entire seat , service centers must remove the seatmounted airbag and pretensioner before discarding the seat . follow local environmental health and safety best practices to dispose of the airbag and pretensioner . refer to tn2020001 for instructions , and use correction code 20010707 to document the labor ; the labor time for destructively removing and disposing of the front seat airbag is not reflected in the front seat removal and replacement labor time .
check the gap between the lh rear fog/reverse light and the lh taillight . the gap specification is 3 mm . if the gap is out of specification , adjust it as needed .
assemble the badge removal kit by cutting an approximately 24 inch section of fishing line and connecting each end of the fishing line to a handle using a knot .
remove the trailer hitch ecu from the trailer hitch assembly .
remove the screws and washers or push clips that attach the splash guard to the wheel arch liner .
remove the ball neck from the vehicle , and then remove the key from the locking cylinder .
remove the bolts that attach the center rear bracket to the body , and then remove the bracket from the vehicle .
disconnect the lumbar valve pack and ecu note 1x connector
push and pull on both crossbars to ensure that they are fully secured and locked in place .
install the side airbag to the seat frame , and then install new nuts to attach the airbag to the frame . 5.4 nm
disconnect the instrument panel electrical harness from the lh body controller module connectors .
release the clips that attach the instrument panel harness to the rh side of the hvac assembly .
use the gantry and hframe hoist to set the hv battery onto the manual lift battery table .
handtighten the 4th lh inner bolt that attaches the hv battery to the body .
with an assistant , install the seat into the vehicle . note lift the seat sideways with the headrest toward the door opening and the seat cushion toward the rear of the vehicle . move the headrest in through the door and follow with the seat cushion . rotate the seat so that the cushion points up , set the seat down onto the carpet , and then rotate the seat back up to vertical .
check the gap between the rh rear fog/reverse light and the rh taillight . the gap specification is 3 mm . if the gap is out of specification , adjust it as needed .
place the spoiler jigs special tool on the lh and rh edges of the trunk lid , and then secure them with masking tape . note the spoiler jigs are used to center and align the spoiler and are removed from the vehicle prior to installation . figure 1 . lh side shown , rh similar
starting from one end of the spoiler , carefully use the badge removal kit to release the spoiler from the trunk . caution care must be taken to avoid damage to paintwork and exterior trim .
inspect the base of the stud on the trailer hitch assembly for a beveled shoulder or epoxy washer : if the stud has an epoxy washer or the base of the stud has a shoulder that is greater than 0.8 mm , continue to the next step . if the stud does not have an epoxy washer and the base of the stud has a shoulder that is 0.8 mm or less , place an epoxy washer onto the stud before installing the ecu . caution installing the ecu onto a stud that does not have a washer or a shoulder that is greater than 0.8 mm may result in damage to the ecu when tightening the nut .
remove the bolt that attaches the bottom of the mud flap to the lower rocker panel cover .
disconnect the trailer hitch jumper harness and body electrical harness from the trailer hitch ecu connectors .
disconnect the lumbar pump note 1x connector
starting from the bottom and working up , install the roof rack side cover on each side of both crossbars . note the bottom of the side covers have guiding tabs that insert into the crossbar .
install the middle apillar trim panel . see trim apillar middle lh .
remove the nut that attaches the instrument panel harness ground strap near the ptc heater .
inspect the top cover of the hv battery for the presence of nvh pads . if the hv battery does not have nvh pads , install the nvh pads . see nvh pads hv battery . note add correction code 16103101 to the repair order/service visit separately . the labor time to install the nvh pads is not included in this parent procedure . if the hv battery already has nvh pads , continue to the next step .
partially close , but do not latch , the lh rear door .
fasten the clips that attach the seat electrical harness to the body .
apply masking tape along the inner edge of the lh and rh taillights .
place shop towels on the lh and rh bump stops to keep the trunk from latching , and then partially close the trunk .
use a vacuum to remove any debris or dirt from the trunk .
move the trailer hitch ecu into place so that the stud on the trailer hitch assembly goes through the hole in the ecu . install the nut that attaches the trailer hitch ecu to the stud on the trailer hitch assembly . 6 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench
remove the splash guard and mud flap assembly from the vehicle .
pull the locking cylinder out approximately 0.5 cm , and turn it clockwise until the lock icon shifts to the top . at this point , the locking cylinder is unlocked in the `` open '' position . warning be careful when turning the locking cylinder . if it does not lock into the `` open '' position , it automatically retracts into its original `` closed '' position and can pinch your fingers .
remove the nut that attaches the trailer hitch ecu to the stud on the trailer hitch assembly , and then remove the ecu from the hitch assembly . note use a 10mm deep socket .
remove the seat harness from seat back frame note 3x clips
ensure the customer receives the locking key when they take delivery of the vehicle .
hook the upper flaps that cover the lh and rh lower corners of the seat back frame .
remove and discard the bolt that attaches the instrument panel harness ground strap to the body . lhd shown , rhd similar
identify the dc input of the new hv battery . if the new hv battery has the busbar type dc input , yet it is being installed into a vehicle with a charge port to hv battery harness and not busbars , retrofit the hv battery with a harness type dc input . see busbar dc input to harness dc input . note add correction code 16302806 to the repair order/service visit separately . the labor time to retrofit to the harness type dc input is not included in this parent procedure . if the new hv battery has the busbar type dc input , and is being installed into a vehicle with charge port to hv battery busbars , continue to the next step .
open the lh front door . caution do not damage any components while working around this area .
connect the seat electrical harness connector to the lh body controller . caution remove all debris from the seat electrical harness connector , firmly press the connector into the body controller , and then engage the connector lock .
release the clips that attach the lh shock tower cover to the vehicle , and then remove the cover from the vehicle . lh shock tower cover shown , rh similar
dry fit the rear spoiler between the taped areas .
dry fit the rear spoiler between the spoiler jigs special tool . figure 2 . lh shown , rh similar note do not remove the spoiler adhesive tape backing at this time .
using a rubber wheel , remove any remaining adhesive from the trunk . warning to avoid personal injury , eye and ear protection must be worn while performing this step .
connect the trailer hitch jumper harness and body harness electrical connectors to the trailer hitch ecu .
pull the splash guard away from the mud flap to release the adhesive tape .
firmly grasp the ball neck from the bottom and align the top with the corresponding notches in the trailer hitch housing . note do not grasp the locking cylinder because it needs to rotate freely .
release the fir tree clip that attaches the trailer hitch jumper harness to the trailer hitch assembly .
place the rh front seat in a position to gain access to the bottom of the seat note protect seat cushion from damage
hook the lower flaps that cover the lh and rh lower corners of the seat back frame .
release the clips that attach the instrument panel electrical harness to the hvac fan assembly .
disconnect the instrument panel harness connector from the restraint control module . lhd shown , rhd similar
handtighten the 3rd lh inner bolt that attaches the hv battery to the body .
tuck excess harness length between the 12v harness bracket and the body .
apply masking tape to the center of the rear spoiler . leave excess masking tape to apply to the trunk lid later in this procedure .
apply masking tape to the center of the rear spoiler and the trunk lid , and then mark approximately 25 mm spacing between the centering lines on the masking tape using a paint marker .
remove all residual tape from the spoiler using a rubber wheel , trim tool , and isopropyl alcohol wipes . make sure that all residue has been removed and that the spoiler is completely dry before continuing . warning to avoid personal injury , eye and ear protection must be worn while performing this step .
clean the mud flap with an alcohol wipe and allow to fully dry .
push the ball neck into the trailer hitch housing until the locking cylinder quickly rotates counterclockwise and automatically locks into the `` closed '' position .
remove the bolts and nuts that attach the trailer hitch jumper harness to the bracket on the trailer hitch assembly , maneuver the jumper harness through the opening in the bracket on the trailer hitch assembly , and then remove the jumper harness from the hitch assembly . note the bolts are inserted from the bottom , and the nuts are on top .
disconnect the seat back heater connector note 1x connector , green
install the seat back shell to the seat . see shell seat back driver .
disconnect the instrument panel electrical harness from the hvac fan assembly motor connector .
release the clips that attach the instrument panel harness to the body .
install the powertrain supply hose to the upper clips on the rh side of the hv battery , and then fasten the clips to attach the hose to the hv battery .
handtighten the lh front inner bolts that attach the hv battery to the body .
verify the rear spoiler fitment on the trunk lid . note each rear spoiler might have a slightly different contour . make sure the rear spoiler is centered on the trunk lid and its corners are laying flat .
remove the spoiler jigs special tool .
clean the bottom of the spoiler with isopropyl alcohol wipes , and allow it to dry for one minute before continuing .
secure the new lh splash guard to the lh mud flap : remove the adhesive backing from the new splash guard . align the splash guard with the mud flap so that the holes are aligned . apply pressure along the mud flap to ensure it is adhered to the splash guard .
turn the key so the arrows align with the lock icon on the locking cylinder , and then remove the key .
remove the nuts that attach the trailer hitch assembly to the studs on the body . tip : use of the following tool is recommended :
remove the seat back harness connector from the seat bottom note slide the connector straight down to release it from the seat assembly
release the clips that attach the cowl screen panel to the vehicle , and then remove the cowl screen panel from the vehicle .
install the inboard side shield to the seat , and then fasten the clips that attach the shield to the seat .
disconnect the instrument panel electrical harness from the ptc heater connector .
release the instrument panel harness clips from the lh side of the instrument panel .
connect the powertrain supply hose fitting to the rh rear underside of the penthouse , and then fasten the clip .
partially close , but do not latch , the lh front door .
adhere the center of the masking tape to the trunk lid .
verify the rear spoiler fitment on the trunk lid . note each rear spoiler might have a slight different contour . make sure the rear spoiler is centered on the trunk lid and its corners are laying flat .
install the adhesive tape onto the spoiler by peeling off the backing of the adhesive tape and aligning the back side of the tape onto the spoiler .
install the lh splash guard and mud flap as an assembly : place washers over the screws , then install the screws and washers that secure the splash guard to the unuts in the front lh wheel arch liner . 1.5 nm install the bolt that attaches the bottom of the mud flap to the lower rocker panel cover . 5 nm
pull down on the ball neck to confirm that it is locked into place .
with the help of an assistant , remove the trailer hitch assembly from the vehicle .
return seat to upright position
disconnect the instrument panel harness connectors from the car computer .
install the powertrain return hose to the lower clips on the rh side of the hv battery , and then fasten the clips to attach the hose to the hv battery .
open the rh rear door . caution do not damage any components while working around this area .
install new bolts to attach the front of the driver seat to the body . 33.5 nm caution use only the torx plus t45 bit to torque the seat bolts .
mark approximately 25 mm spacing between the centering lines on the masking tape using a paint marker .
cut the masking tape to allow removal of the rear spoiler . caution do not damage the surfaces of the trunk lid or rear spoiler while using a plastic razor blade .
install the lh splash guard and mud flap as an assembly : align the holes in the mud flap/splash guard to the holes in the front wheel arch liner , and then insert the opened push clips into the holes . once the push clips are fully inserted , push the plastic rivets in to close the push clips and lock the mud flap/splash guard in place . install the bolt that attaches the bottom of the mud flap to the lower rocker panel cover . 5 nm
insert the key hole cover onto the ball neck .
with the help of an assistant , install the trailer hitch assembly over the studs on the body .
remove the outboard fasteners securing the seat back frame to the seat cushion frame note 2x patch bolts , t50 , 43 nm , discard after removal
release the clips and the harness holder that attach the instrument panel electrical harness to the top portion of the cross car beam , and then release the hvac electrical harness from the instrument panel electrical harness .
install the hv battery return hose to the clips on the lh side of the hv battery , and then fasten the clips to attach the hose to the hv battery .
handtighten the 5th rh rear inner bolt that attaches the hv battery to the body .
remove the rear spoiler from the trunk lid .
ensure the splash guard is aligned with the body . make adjustments as necessary .
install the nuts that attach the trailer hitch assembly to the studs on the body . 60 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended :
remove the fastener securing the seat belt buckle to the cushion frame note 1x patch bolt , t50 , 40 nm , discard after removal , this bolt is removed to gain access to the forward fastener to the seat back frame
disconnect the instrument panel harness connectors from the rh body controller module . lhd shown , rhd has only 1x coax connector
connect the lh inner hv battery return hose fitting to the lh rear of the hv battery platter enclosure , and then fasten the clip .
handtighten the 4th rh inner bolt that attaches the hv battery to the body , if equipped .
install new bolts to attach the rear of the driver seat to the body . 33.5 nm caution use only the torx plus t45 bit to torque the seat bolts .
remove the tape backing on the rear spoiler to expose the adhesive tape .
remove the adhesive backing from the rear spoiler .
maneuver the trailer hitch jumper harness through the opening in the bracket on the trailer hitch assembly , and then install the jumper harness to the bracket so that the holes align and the protective cover pivots to the lh side .
remove the seat belt buckle harness clip from the seat frame note 1x clip
remove the nut that attaches the instrument panel electrical harness ground strap near the ptc heater .
disconnect the connectors from the harness clip at the rh lower apillar .
partially close , but do not latch , the rh rear door .
install the seatbelt into the seatbelt pretensioner coupling . note after reinstalling the seatbelt pretensioner into the seatbelt pretensioner coupling , perform a pull test to make sure that the seatbelt and pretensioner are securely engaged .
align the two marks on the masking tape on the rear spoiler with the two marks on the masking tape on the trunk lid . hold the corners of the rear spoiler away from the trunk lid to install the center section of the rear spoiler first .
install the screws and nuts that attach the jumper harness to the bracket . 2.5 nm note the bolts are inserted from the bottom , and the nuts are on top .
disconnect the seat belt buckle and set seat belt buckle aside note 1x connector
remove and discard the bolt that attaches the instrument panel electrical harness ground strap to the body .
remove the fasteners that attach the rh cross car beam bracket , and then remove the bracket from the vehicle .
connect the rh inner hv battery return hose fitting to the rh rear of the hv battery platter enclosure , and then fasten the clip .
open the rh front door . caution do not damage any components while working around this area .
reinstall software using the vehicle touchscreen : select service mode , and then select software reinstall . select request to initiate software installation . note a yellow clock installation icon should appear within 5 minutes . touch the clock icon in the top left corner of the touchscreen , and then touch install now .
secure each end of the rear spoiler to the trunk lid .
fasten the fir tree clip that attaches the trailer hitch jumper harness to the trailer hitch assembly .
remove the inboard fasteners securing the seat back frame to the cushion frame note 2x patch bolts , t50 , 43 nm , discard after removal
disconnect the instrument panel electrical harness from the passive safety restraint module connector .
remove the instrument panel harness from the center console area and move it aside .
install the hv battery supply hose assembly to the hv battery , connect the rh outer hv battery supply hose fitting to the rh front of the hv battery platter enclosure , and then fasten the clip .
handtighten the 3rd rh inner bolt that attaches the hv battery to the body , if equipped .
perform the wet out of the adhesive : starting at the center , firmly push downward and in towards the front of the vehicle , and then continue outwards towards both ends of the spoiler .
remove the seat back frame from the cushion frame note rotate the frame away from the cushion frame and lift the seat frame straight up
release any remaining clips that attach the instrument panel harness to the cross car beam , and then remove the harness from the cross car beam .
connect the rh inner hv battery supply hose fitting to the rh front of the hv battery platter enclosure , and then fasten the clip .
handtighten the rh front inner bolts that attach the hv battery to the body .
on the vehicle touchscreen , select the service menu , select the seat & steering calibration button , and then select the start button .
remove the masking tape from the vehicle , and then clean the work area . note make sure that the rear spoiler corners are laid flat to the trunk lid and symmetrical .
release the lh lower rocker panel bolt covers .
open the lh doors .
open the lh front door , and then lower lh front window .
install the trailer hitch ecu onto the stud of the trailer hitch assembly , and then install the nut that attaches the ecu to the hitch assembly . 6 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench
turn the seat bottom over for access note protect seat cushion from damage
release the clips that attach the hvac electrical harness to the instrument panel electrical harness .
remove the bolts that attach the steering column to the body .
connect the lh inner hv battery supply hose fitting to the lh front of the hv battery platter enclosure , and then fasten the clip .
partially close , but do not latch , the rh front door .
move the driver seat to the original position .
remove and discard the push clips that attach the front lh wheel arch liner to the lower rocker panel cover .
perform a configuration update .
remove the bolts that attach the lh lower rocker panel cover to the body . 5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 6 in extension
pull down to release the front and rear primary body seals from the lh upper brightwork . note it is not necessary to release the seals from the top of the bpillar applique .
remove the lh front door tweeter . see tweeter front door lh .
open the lh front and rear doors .
connect the trailer hitch jumper harness and body electrical harness to the trailer hitch ecu connectors .
disconnect the heat pad connector note 1x connector
disconnect the instrument panel electrical harness from the car computer connectors .
remove the nuts that attach the steering column to the cross car beam . lhd shown , rhd similar
connect the lh outer hv battery supply hose fitting to the lh front of the hv battery platter enclosure , and then fasten the clip .
with an assistant , lower the vehicle onto the hv battery completely .
open the front lh lower rocker panel bolt access cover .
pull outward to release the clips that attach the rear of the lh door mirror skull cap to the lh door mirror . figure 1 . outside edge of skull cap figure 2 . inside edge of skull cap
use a plastic trim tool to pry up along the inner edge of the lh door mirror cover .
press the outside of the door mirror glass fully in so that it is angled away from the vehicle .
remove the screws that attach the rear license plate to the rear license plate bracket , if a license plate is installed . otherwise , skip to the next step .
use ipa wipes to clean the front center surface of the front fascia . allow to fully dry before continuing .
release the clips that attach the lh lower rocker panel cover to the front and rear wheel arch liners . figure 1 . front figure 2 . rear
remove the push rivet and the screws that attach the lh upper brightwork to the body , and then carefully remove the brightwork from the vehicle . note work from the front to the rear . caution use an assistant to help remove the brightwork from the rear quarter glass , so as to minimize damage to the paint and trim . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t20 socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 2 in extension
release the clips that attach the bpillar applique fastener cover to the vehicle , and then remove the cover .
instal the center rear bracket to the body , and then install the bolts that attach the bracket to the body . 4 nm
remove the heat pad connector from the seat bottom note 1x connector , 1x clip , slide connector forward to release from seat bottom
disconnect the instrument panel electrical harness from the rh body controller module connectors .
lower the steering column and set it aside .
torque the lh and rh bolts that attach the hv battery to the vehicle . 35 nm
remove and discard the front bolt and washer that attaches the lh lower rocker panel cover to the body .
pry up along the inside and outside edge of the lh door mirror skull cap , working toward the front of the skull cap .
remove the screws that attach the front license plate to the front license plate bracket , and then remove the license plate .
clean the front center surface of the front fascia .
lift upward to release the tabs that attach the lh door mirror cover to the lh door mirror , and then remove the mirror cover .
insert a plastic trim tool behind the glass in the bottom inboard corner , and then carefully release the tabs that attach the door mirror glass to the mirror assembly .
remove the screws that attach the rear license plate bracket to the vehicle , and then remove the bracket from the vehicle .
remove the backing from the long horizontal tape strip on the new front license plate bracket .
release the clips that attach the lh lower rocker panel cover to the rocker panel , and then remove the cover from the panel .
remove and discard the grommets from the body .
remove the screws and washers or push clips that attach the mud flap to the wheel arch liner .
remove the bolts that attach the bpillar applique to the body , but do not remove the applique from the vehicle at this time .
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harnesses to the center rear bracket assembly .
disconnect the seat occupied sensor note 1x connector
remove the fasteners that attach the rh cross car beam bracket , and remove the bracket from the vehicle . 25 nm 25 nm
remove the bolts that attach the touchscreen brackets , and remove the brackets from the vehicle . lhd shown , rhd similar
put on cutresistant gloves then use a retractable blade knife to carefully cut off the open access cover from the lower rocker panel . warning ensure cutresistant gloves are worn during this step to avoid personal injury .
release the remaining clips that attach the lh door mirror skull cap to the lh door mirror , and then remove the skull cap from the door mirror .
use a trim tool around the perimeter of the front license plate bracket to release the tape that attaches the bracket to the front fascia .
align the template with the parking sensors , and then use masking tape to hold the template in place .
use a paint pen to mark the upper black harness connector . note the paint marking is used to aid installation .
verify that the thread inserts were not damaged during the removal of the screws .
fold the backing of the vertical tape strips out at a 90 degree angle .
wipe where the grommets will install with an ipa wipe .
remove the lh door mirror . see mirror door lh .
remove the mud flap from the vehicle .
release the bpillar applique from the body , and then d isconnect the camera connectors from the bpillar applique . caution use caution not to damage the camera connectors .
remove the seat occupied sensor from the seat bottom note 1x clip , release the sensor from the seat frame by depressing the retaining clip and pulling the sensor away
release the clips that attach the instrument panel electrical harness to the cross car beam , and then remove the electrical harness from the cross car beam .
release the clips that attach the bleeder duct adapter to the hvac assembly , and remove the bleeder duct form the vehicle . lhd shown , rhd similar
secure the lh splash guard to the lh mud flap : remove the adhesive backing from the splash guard . align the splash guard with the mud flap so that the holes are aligned . apply pressure along the mud flap to ensure it is adhered to the splash guard .
position the lh door mirror skull cap over the lh door mirror , and align the skull cap tabs to the door mirror .
remove the front license plate bracket from the front fascia .
align the front license plate bracket over the template , and then secure the bracket to the front fascia with masking tape . lh side shown , rh side similar
release the clips that attach the reflector to the rear edge of the lh front door trim panel and the screw cover to the front of the armrest , and then remove the reflector and cover from the trim panel .
disconnect the electrical connectors from the door mirror glass .
clean the trunk lid surface with isopropyl alcohol wipes , and then allow the surface to dry before continuing .
hold the license plate bracket horizontally and align the locator tab at the bottom lip of the bracket with the center rib of the fascia grille .
install the lh mud flap : while carefully pulling the lower portion of the front lh wheel arch liner away from the wheel well , install the unuts over the holes in the lh rocker panel that were used for the push clips . place washers over the screws , then install the screws and washers that secure the mud flap to the unuts in the front lh wheel arch liner . 1.5 nm install the bolt that attaches the bottom of the mud flap to the lower rocker panel cover . 5 nm
install new grommets into the body where the lh upper brightwork will install .
release the tabs that attach the lh door mirror apillar applique to the lh door mirror , and then remove the applique from the mirror .
1st generation kits : place washers over the screws , then install the screws and washers that secure the mud flap to the unuts in the front lh wheel arch liner . 1.5 nm
r emove the bpillar applique from the vehicle .
remove the seat cushion retaining clips from the seat suspension note 2x clips
remove the bolts that attach the steering column to the body . 25 nm
remove the bolt that attaches the cross car beam to the upper side of the cowl , and then remove the bolt that attaches the cross car beam to the hvac assembly .
install the lh splash guard and mud flap as an assembly : while carefully pulling the lower portion of the front lh wheel arch liner away from the wheel well , install the unuts over the holes in the lh rocker panel that were used for the push clips . place washers over the screws , then install the screws and washers that secure the splash guard to the unuts in the front lh wheel arch liner . 1.5 nm install the bolt that attaches the bottom of the mud flap to the lower rocker panel cover . 5 nm
push down on the top of the lh door mirror skull cap to fasten the clips that attach the skull cap to the lh door mirror . note press at the inside and outside edges of the skull cap , until an audible click is heard . note make sure the gaps between the inner perimeter of sthe kull cap and door mirror assembly are within specification . figure 3 . outside edge of skull cap figure 4 . inside edge of skull cap
use alcohol wipes to clean any bracket tape , residue , or debris from the front fascia .
verify that the front license plate bracket is level with a bubble level . make sure that there is no variance compared to level ground .
remove the door mirror glass from the vehicle .
install the screws that attach the rear license plate bracket to the vehicle . 1.2 nm
rotate the license plate bracket vertically and press the top edge against the front fascia .
install the lh mud flap : align the holes in the mud flap/splash guard to the holes in the front wheel arch liner , and then insert the opened push clips into the holes . once the push clips are fully inserted , push the plastic rivets in to close the push clips and lock the mud flap/splash guard in place . install the bolt that attaches the bottom of the mud flap to the lower rocker panel cover . 5 nm
press the seals into the body at the bpillar corners .
position the lh door mirror apillar applique on the lh door mirror , and then install the tabs that attach the applique to the mirror .
2nd generation kits : align the holes in the mud flap/splash guard to the holes in the front wheel arch liner , and then insert the opened push clips into the holes . once the push clips are fully inserted , push the plastic rivets in to close the push clips and lock the mud flap/splash guard in place .
connect the camera connectors to the bpillar applique , and then position the applique onto the vehicle .
remove the front retaining clip from the seat cushion frame securing the front of the seat trim to the frame note 1x clip strip , may need to start with a hook tool , pull the clip away from the frame to release
remove the nuts that attach the steering column to the cross car beam . 15 nm
remove the bolts that attach the cross car beam to the hvac assembly . lhd shown , rhd similar
paint the top 2 bracket holes on the front fascia with a paint marker ; use the pilot holes to mount the front license plate bracket . the bottom holes cover the template . note the template must be removed before fastening the front license plate bracket to the front fascia . rh side lh side
pull the lh front door trim panel outwards to release the clips that attach the panel to the door , and then carefully rotate the door panel clockwise 90 degrees and set it onto a soft surface to prevent damage . caution do not remove the trim panel from the door at this time . note inspect the harness clips and routing for vehicles built before 12/17/18 . figure 4 . trim panel clip locations figure 5 . door clip locations
connect the electrical connectors to the door mirror glass . note refer to the paint marking made during removal to determine which electrical connector is the upper one .
install the screws that attach the rear license plate on the rear license plate bracket , if applicable . 1.2 nm
pull the tape strips out from the sides of license plate bracket .
ensure the mud flap is aligned with the body . make adjustments as necessary .
with assistance , carefully install the lh upper brightwork into the rear quarter glass .
install the lh door mirror . see mirror door lh .
install the bolt that attaches the bottom of the mud flap to the lower rocker panel cover . 5 nm
install the bolts that attach the bpillar applique to the body . 5 nm
remove the inboard retaining clip from the seat cushion frame securing the side of the seat trim to the frame note 1x clip strip , may need to start with a hook tool , pull the clip away from the frame to release
remove the fasteners that attach the lh cross car beam bracket to the cross car beam , and then remove the cross car beam bracket from the vehicle . lhd shown , rhd similar
remove the front license plate bracket and the template .
disconnect the electrical harness from the lh door mirror connectors .
align the center of the door mirror glass to the center of the door mirror assembly and then install the door mirror glass so that the 8 tabs are fully engaged . note when aligned correctly , the metal tab on the door mirror glass goes the top right of the door mirror assembly . caution take care not to damage component .
press the bracket against the front fascia to wet out the adhesive tape . tip : use a seam roller to wet out the adhesive tape .
perform this procedure on the rh side of the vehicle to retrofit the rh mud flap .
install the lh upper brightwork to the body , and then install the screws and push rivet that attach the brightwork to the body . 1 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t20 socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 2 in extension note work from the rear to the front .
install the lh front door puddle light . see puddle light front door lh .
position the bpillar applique fastener cover onto the vehicle , and then engage the clips that attach the bpillar applique fastener cover to the vehicle .
remove the outboard retaining clip from the seat cushion frame securing the side of the seat trim to the frame note 1x clip strip , may need to start with a hook tool , pull the clip away from the frame to release
remove the bolts that attach the touchscreen brackets , and remove the brackets from the vehicle .
remove the bolts that attach the cross car beam to the body .
perform this procedure on the rh side of the vehicle to retrofit the rh splash guard .
wear eye and ear protection before continuing .
release the clip that attaches the lh front door mirror harness to the door assembly .
adjust the door mirror glass back to its original location .
install the license plate onto the front license plate bracket , and then install the screws that attach the plate to the bracket . 3 nm
press up to fasten the rear and front primary body seals onto the lh upper brightwork . note work from the rear corner of each seal forward , and make sure that the seal fully engages the brightwork . when installed correctly , the seal edge is not visible .
install the lh front door trim panel . see panel door trim front lh .
close the lh rear door .
remove the cushion pad assembly from the seat frame assembly note lift the cushion straight off , ensure the heating pad and seat occupied sensor harnesses are clear of the seat frame
release the clips that attach the bleeder duct adapter to the hvac assembly , and remove the bleeder duct form the vehicle .
with an assistant , remove the cross car beam from the vehicle and place it on a support stand or table .
use a 7/64 in drill bit to drill 4 holes through the front fascia . caution only drill though the top surface of the front fascia . drilling too far can result in damage to the vehicle .
release the clips that attach the lh front glass run seal to door .
clean the door mirror glass to remove any smudges or fingerprints .
work each seal around the opening so as to evenly distribute it . note make sure to push the seal into each corner .
install the lh front door tweeter . see tweeter front door lh .
reinstall the vehicle firmware . see software reinstall . note skip this step if reinstalling the original bpillar applique assembly that came with the vehicle .
disconnect seat track position sensor note 1x connector
remove the bolts that attach the cross car beam to the upper side of the cowl . 25 nm
with an assistant , position the cross car beam in the vehicle for installation . caution do not damage the interior when installing the cross car beam in the vehicle .
install the 2 top screws that attach the front license plate bracket to the front fascia . 1 nm
remove the bolts that attach the lh door mirror to the lh front door . caution use only hand tools to remove or install the fasteners . do not use impact or power tools . note the foremost bolt is located under the glass run seal . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 4 in extension
close the lh doors .
disconnect the lift motor connector note 1x connector
remove the bolts that attach the cross car beam to the hvac assembly .
first handtighten all bolts that attach the cross car beam to the body , and then torque them to the specified values .
install the 2 bottom screws that attach the front license plate bracket to the front fascia . 1 nm
release the clip that attaches the lh front door mirror to the door assembly , push the grommet through the door opening , and then route the mirror harness through the door while lifting up on the mirror to remove the mirror from the door assembly .
in toolbox , click on the `` dashboard '' tab .
disconnect the tilt motor connector note 1x connector
remove the fasteners that attach the lh cross car beam bracket to the cross car beam , and then remove the cross car beam bracket from the vehicle .
install the license plate onto the front license plate bracket , and install the screws that attach the plate to the bracket . 3 nm
position the lh door mirror onto the door assembly , route the harness through the door opening , and then secure the clip that attaches the mirror to the door .
click on `` service tools '' .
remove the harness clip from the seat track motor note 1x clip
remove the bolts that attach the cross car beam to the body .
clean the trunk area where the `` dual motor '' badge is to be installed with an isopropyl alcohol wipe .
prepare the badge removal tool with approximately 60 centimeters of monofilament line .
disconnect the seat track motor connector note 1x connector
put the badge fixture tool in position on the trunk and secure it with masking tape . note make sure the badge and adhesion surface are between 60120 degrees fahrenheit . use a heat gun in cold weather conditions to bring installation surfaces to optimum temperature .
raise the trunk lid , and position the badge removal tool so that the monofilament line cuts under a corner of the rear tesla badge .
with the hood closed , position the badge removal tool so that the monofilament line cuts under a corner of the front tesla badge .
use ipa wipes to clean around the sill plate .
disconnect the driver pretensioner connector note 1x connector , slide the orange lock up to release the connector
remove the badge liner on the adhesive side , and then set the badge in the badge fixture using the datum holes .
move the badge removal tool in a sawing motion to separate the rear tesla badge from the trunk lid .
move the badge removal tool in a sawing motion to separate the front tesla badge from the hood .
apply masking tape around the perimeter of the sill plate to mark the installation positioning . note place the tape as closely around the sill plate as possible .
adhere the badge to the trunk by pressing through the badge fixture window .
use ipa wipes to clean all adhesive residue and debris from the trunk lid surface .
use ipa wipes to clean all adhesive residue and debris from the hood surface .
use a plastic trim tool to carefully pry up and bend the sill plate .
review the images to make sure all cameras are able to capture images correctly .
remove the clear front liner from the badge . do not discard the liner at this time .
open the trunk lid partially to accommodate the rear badge fixture .
open the hood partially , and place a folded shop towel over the latch to prevent the hood from closing .
while using pliers to pull up on the sill plate , use a retractable blade to cut through the adhesive . warning to reduce the risk of personal injury , wear cutresistant gloves while performing this operation . caution be careful not to damage the vehicle trim or body .
verify that all key cards work on the bpillar applique as designed .
remove the badge fixture and masking tape from the trunk .
install the rear badge fixture over the rearview camera and onto the trunk lid , and then attach the fixture in place with tape .
install the front badge fixture over the hood and onto the striker , and then attach the fixture in place with tape .
use ipa wipes to clean off any remaining adhesive .
reapply the clear front liner to the badge to protect the surface .
peel the adhesive backing from the trunk badge , align the badge protective film to the locating posts of the fixture , and then press the badge to the trunk .
peel the adhesive backing from the hood badge , align the badge protective film to the locating posts of the fixture , and then press the badge to the hood .
remove the adhesive backing from the new sill plate .
inform the customer that manual driving is now required to allow the camera to selfcalibrate . note selfcalibration can take up to 100 miles of manual driving , depending upon the road type and condition . until selfcalibration is complete , the message `` autopilot features currently unavailable : manual driving required while camera is calibrating '' is displayed if an attempt is made to engage an autopilot feature .
use the silicone seam roller to fully adhere the badge .
remove the protective film from the badge , and then remove the fixture from the trunk lid .
remove the protective film from the badge , and then remove the fixture from the hood .
using the masking tape as a guide , carefully place the new sill plate into place and press down on it to adhere it to the vehicle .
also inform the customer that because a bluetooth endpoint has been replaced as part of the applique , the phone key is unaware of this change . the customer must delete and repair their phone key to the vehicle , if they were previously using this feature . instructions are available in the owners manual , and at the diy web pages .
remove the clear front liner from the badge .
replace the protective film over the badge , use a pressure roller to wetout the badge , and then remove the protective film .
remove the shop towel from the latch , and then close the hood .
use a seam roller to fully wet out the adhesive .
use an ipa wipe to clean the badge and any remaining debris . note make sure that all edges of the badge are securely affixed to the trunk lid surface .
if the replacement hv battery has a front drive unit hv connector , continue to the next step . otherwise , go to step 33 .
torque the bolts that attach the front of the hv battery to the vehicle . 30 nm
acquire a dummy plug and remove and discard the cover , if present .
torque the front center bolt that attaches the hv battery to the vehicle . 10 nm
move the red tab to the unlock position , and then carefully swing the black locking arm to the unlock position until it makes a click . caution be careful not to damage the dummy plug when releasing the black locking arm from the dummy plug body . note make sure that the black locking arm makes a clicking sound after it moves to the unlock position .
torque the bolts that attach the hv battery lh and rh support brackets to the vehicle . 110 nm
install the dummy plug onto the front drive unit electrical connector of the hv battery , then swing the black locking tab to the lock position , and then move the red tab into the lock position .
tighten the bolts that attach the center portion of the hv battery through the center ski cover . 34 nm
torque the fasteners that attach the rear skid plate to the vehicle . see skid plate hv battery rear .
with an assistant , raise the vehicle , and then remove the battery table from underneath the vehicle . set the vehicle to a comfortable working height .
remove the smaller bolts and the larger bolt that are used to attach the lh shear plate to the vehicle .
install the lh shear plate , and then install the smaller bolts that attach the shear plate to the hv battery . 30 nm
install the larger bolt that attaches the shear plate to the vehicle , and then mark the bolt with a paint pen . 128 nm
clean the installation areas with automotive soap and water , and then dry with a clean microfiber towel . make sure all dirt , grease , etc . is removed .
install the bolts that attach the lh door mirror to the lh front door . 15 nm note use only hand tools to remove or install the fasteners . do not use impact or power tools .
repeat steps 54 through 57 for the rh shear plate .
create a slip solution by mixing approximately 85 % water and 15 % baby shampoo in a spray bottle or suitable container . shake the container to make sure the solution is thoroughly mixed .
secure the clips that attach the lh front glass run seal to door .
remove the brake booster . see booster brake electromechanical .
apply liberal amounts of the slip solution to the installation area and the lh lower and lh upper film pieces .
connect the electrical harness to the lh door mirror connectors .
remove clips securing the driver seat harness on the outboard side of the seat frame note 3x clips
handtighten the bolts that attach the lh and rh corners of the cross car beam to the body .
install the lh shear plate , and then install the smaller bolts that attach the shear plate to the hv battery . 35 nm
remove the bolts that attach the mid aero shield panel to the vehicle , and then remove the panel from the vehicle .
remove the bolts that attach the front aero shield panel to the vehicle . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 4 in extension
remove the clips that attach the rear portion of the lh and rh rear wheel liners to the body .
remove the bolt and r elease the clips that attach the lh rear wheel arch liner to the vehicle , and then remove the liner from the vehicle 5 nm
remove the bolt and r elease the clips that attach the lh front wheel arch liner to the vehicle , and then remove the liner from the vehicle . 5 nm note newer vehicles might have fewer fasteners than pictured . note use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 4 in extension
release the lh lower film from the backing , applying slip solution as it is released .
secure the clip that attaches the lh front door mirror harness to the door assembly .
remove clips securing the driver seat harness on the under side of the seat frame note 4x clips
handtighten the bolts that attach the lh cross car beam to the body .
position the coolant drain under the front lh side of the hv battery .
inspect the hv battery vent assemblies at the rear of the hv battery for the presence of breathers .
open the lh rear door and lower the window .
open the lh front door and lower the lh front window fully .
remove the nuts that attach the front aero shield panel to the vehicle , and then remove the panel from the vehicle note use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 4 in extension
adhere the lh lower film to the rocker panel , aligning the bottom of the sticker with the bottom of the rocker panel and the rear of the sticker with the rear quarter panel of the vehicle . note apply slip solution as necessary to maneuver the film so that it is aligned with the contours of the body and the entire film is adhered to the paint .
remove clips securing the driver seat harness on the inboard side of the seat frame note 3x clips
handtighten the bolts that attach the cross car beam to the upper side of the cowl .
remove the plugs from the chiller to hv battery hose and the manifold at the lh side of the vehicle , immediately connect the male and female fittings , and then fasten the clip . note perform a pushpullpush test on the fittings to make sure that they are secure .
if any breathers are missing , install them now . see breathers hv battery . note after installing the breather , if necessary , return to the procedure that required removal of the mid aero shield panel .
release the trunk seal from the trunk perimeter , and then remove the seal from the body .
use narrowwidth tape to carefully mark the location of the secondary seal around the door . caution make sure that the edge of the tape accurately follows the edge of the seal .
pry the outer belt seal from the rear door , and then remove the seal from the rear door .
pull up and then pry to release the lh front door outer belt seal from the door using a plastic trim tool , and then remove the seal from the door .
apply a thin bead of loctite 222 to the threads of the bolts that attach the front aero shield panel to the vehicle .
r emove the fastener covers , and then r emove the bolts that attach the rear fascia diffuser to the vehicle . 4 nm note newer vehicles are not equipped with the front , middle bolt . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension
release coolant hoses from car computer . see guid994b4c5e5dbe4baba037d142fe9af2ff.html .
once the film is correctly positioned , use the squeegee to remove any air bubbles between the film and paint .
install the lh door mirror cover , and then press down to fasten the tabs that attach the cover to the mirror .
remove harness from seat frame
handtighten the bolts that attach the cross car beam to the hvac assembly .
fasten the clips that attach the chiller to hv battery hose to the body .
apply a thin bead of loctite 222 to the threads of the bolts that attach the mid aero shield panel to the vehicle .
align the line on the trunk seal to the striker .
release the ends of the door secondary seal from the ends of the inner belt seal .
release the ends of the door secondary seal from the rear of the inner belt seal and the door glass run seal .
insert the plastic trim tool into the seal channel and twist the tool inboard to open the channel to remove the plastic xdatum .
install the front aero shield panel to the underside of the vehicle , and then handtighten the nuts to temporarily hold the panel in place .
remove the bolts that attach the rear fascia diffuser to the outer edge of the rear fascia . 3 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket
release black connector from right body controller and disconnect . see harness door front lh .
release the lh upper film from the backing , applying slip solution as it is released .
position the driver seat harness to seat frame for installation note make sure the harness is routed properly , the main branch of the harness should line up with the center cut out for the center clip , route the inboard and outboard legs of the harness between the track and the frame , both inboard and outboard legs should wrap around the front of the frame
handtighten the fasteners that attach the rh cross car beam bracket .
remove the plugs from the hv battery return hose at the lh side of the vehicle , immediately connect the male and female fittings , and then fasten the clip . note perform a pushpullpush test on the fittings to make sure that they are secure .
install the mid aero shield panel to the underside of the vehicle , and then install the bolts that attach the panel to the vehicle . 5 nm
install the trunk seal to the perimeter of the trunk . tip : tap the trunk seal with a rubber hammer and use a plastic trim tool to fully install the trunk seal to the body . note make sure the bottom of the seal is tucked into the rear fascia .
slowly peel the length of the secondary seal from the perimeter of the rear door .
slowly peel the length of the secondary seal from the perimeter of the door . note discard the seal as it can not be reused .
with the help of the plastic trim tool , press the seal channel closed with your thumb . note make sure seal fits properly on the door hem flange .
handtighten the bolts that attach the front aero shield panel to the vehicle .
remove the bolts that attach the rear fascia diffuser to the inside of the rear fascia . 3 nm note reach into the loosened rear fascia diffuser to access these bolts . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket
remove the front dash noise absorber from the vehicle .
adhere the lh upper film to the quarter panel , aligning the bottom of the sticker with the top of the lh lower sticker and the rear of the sticker with the rear quarter panel of the vehicle . note apply slip solution as necessary to maneuver the film so that it is aligned with the contours of the body and the entire film is adhered to the paint .
install clips securing the driver seat harness to seat cushion frame note 4x clips
handtighten the fasteners that attach the lh cross car beam bracket to the cross car beam , and then tighten the fasteners to specifications . 25 nm 25 nm
position the coolant drain under the front rh side of the hv battery .
clean any remaining adhesive or residue from the rear door .
clean any remaining adhesive or residue from the door .
install the lh rear door outer belt seal onto the door assembly by pushing down to secure it . note use p80 emulsion lubricant to ease installation of the seal .
install the lh front door outer belt seal onto the door assembly by pushing down to secure it . note use p80 emulsion lubricant to ease installation of the seal .
torque the nuts and bolts to the proper specification . 5 nm 5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm socket and 10 mm socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 4 in extension
release the tabs that attach the rear fascia diffuser to the rear fascia , and then remove the diffuser .
install the front dash noise absorber from the vehicle .
install clips securing the driver seat harness to inboard side of seat cushion frame note 3x clips
tighten the fasteners that attach the rh cross car beam bracket . 25 nm 25 nm
remove the plugs from the rear powertrain supply hose at the rh side of the vehicle , immediately connect the male and female fittings , and then fasten the clip . note perform a pushpullpush test on the fittings to make sure that they are secure .
pull the strings on the trunk seal to seat it flush across the interior .
peel a short section of seal backing and insert the end of the seal into the rear of the inner belt seal .
peel a short section of seal backing and insert the end of the seal into the rear of the inner belt seal . note make sure that both edges of the seal are under the cutouts for the inner belt seal .
connect black connector from right body controller and disconnect . see harness door front lh .
perform steps 39 on the rh side .
remove the protective film from the sill plate .
install clips securing the driver seat harness to outboard side of seat cushion frame note 3x clips
tighten the bolts that attach the cross car beam to the hvac assembly . 5.5 nm
remove the plugs from the powertrain return hose at the rh side of the vehicle , immediately connect the male and female fittings , and then fasten the clip . note perform a pushpullpush test on the fittings to make sure that they are secure .
install the rear trunk floor .
peel the seal backing and carefully position the edge of the seal to the edge of the marking tape while working around the rear door . note do not stretch the seal as it is applied to the door .
peel the seal backing and carefully position the edge of the seal to the edge of the marking tape while working around the rear door . note make sure that the drain holes of the seal are at the bottom of the door . note do not stretch the seal as it is applied to the door . note make sure that the open edge of the seal is facing the inside of the door .
connect coolant hoses from car computer . see guid994b4c5e5dbe4baba037d142fe9af2ff.html .
close the trunk lid .
use an ipa wipe to clean the badge and any remaining debris . note make sure that all edges of the badge are securely affixed to the hood surface .
remove the masking tape from the door sill .
connect the driver pretensioner connector note 1x connector , the pretensioner is a twostage connector , ensure the lock is engaged after the connector is fully seated
tighten the bolts that attach the cross car beam to the upper side of the cowl . 25 nm
insert the end of the seal into the front of the inner belt seal .
insert the end of the seal into the door glass run seal .
connect the seat track motor connector note 1x connector
tighten the bolts that attach the lh and rh corners of the cross car beam to the body . 29 nm
connect the a/c hv connector .
use a seam roller to attach the seal to the rear door .
use a seam roller to attach the seal to the door .
install the seat track harness connector to the seat track motor note 1x edge clip
install the clips that attach the bleeder duct adapter to the hvac assembly .
connect the ptc hv electrical connector , and then install the harnesses to the bracket .
remove the marking tape from the rear door , and close the door .
remove the marking tape from the door , and close the door .
install the brake booster . see booster brake electromechanical .
connect the tilt motor connector note 1x connector
install the bolts that attach the touchscreen brackets . 12 nm
release the clips that attach the rear and front pieces of the inner belt seal to the rear door , and then remove the rear and front pieces of the inner belt seal .
remove the rear of the inner belt seal from the door . note remove the clips that remain in the door , and then install the clips into the rear of the inner belt seal .
release the seal from the underhood storage unit , and then remove the seal from the underhood storage unit .
remove the lh front door inner belt seal from the door . see seal inner belt front door lh .
release the clips that attach the rear lh primary body seal to the mid bpillar , the upper bpillar , and the mid cpillar .
release the clips that attach the front lh primary body seal to the mid bpillar , the upper bpillar , and the mid apillar .
remove the front lh front door speaker . see speaker front door lh .
connect the lift motor connector note 1x connector
remove the bungee straps from the lh and rh wheel arch liners .
remove the lh rear door glass . see glass door lh rear .
open the front lh door and fully lower the lh front window .
remove the lh rear door trim panel . see panel door trim rear lh .
remove the rh front door trim panel . see panel door trim front lh .
open the lh front door and lower the lh front window .
slowly peel the length of the strip piece of the seal from the rear door .
release the rest of the seal from the door , and then remove the seal from the door .
during installation , align the line from the seal to the line from the underhood storage unit .
disconnect the mirror electrical harness from the connectors .
pull on the seal to remove it from the body .
remove the bolts that attach the window motor to the closeout panel . 3 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 8 mm socket 2 in extension
connect seat track position sensor note 1x connector
fasten the clips along the bottom edge of the lh and rh wheel arch liners .
in toolbox , select the connection status icon at the top right corner , and then select connect locally .
disconnect the electrical harness from lh rear window motor/regulator assembly .
remove the front lh door tweeter . see tweeter front door lh .
release the clips that attach the rear window switch to the door trim panel . tip : release the front clips first , and then release the rear clips while pushing the rear window switch to release it from the door trim panel . note feed the electrical harness through the door trim panel hole to remove the electrical harness from the rear window switch . note replace any broken door panel clips
remove the puddle light electrical connector from the rh front door trim panel .
remove the bolt that attaches the lower bolt cover to the lh front door trim panel . 6 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : t30 socket
press the rear door inner belt seal downwards into the rear door .
release the clips that attach the lh front door glass run seal to the lh front door .
loosely install the rear lh primary body seal to the body .
loosely install the front lh primary body seal to the body .
d isconnect the electrical wiring harness from the lh front door pressure sensor connector .
place the cushion pad assembly onto seat cushion frame for installation note insert the rear of the seat cushion to seat bottom frame and then lower the rest on the seat cushion to the seat bottom frame , ensure wiring harness are routed through the back of seat frame
install the bolt that attaches the ground strap to the hv battery 10 nm
get into the driver seat , and then close the door .
release the clips that attach the manual latch release cable to the lh rear window motor/regulator assembly .
remove the lh front door trim panel . see panel door trim front lh .
remove the rear window switch from the vehicle .
release the clips that attach the front passenger window switch electrical harness to the rh front door trim panel , and then disconnect the window switch electrical connector .
release the clips that attach the bolt cover to the lh front door trim panel , and then pivot the bolt cover down and off of the door trim panel .
install the clips that attach the inner belt seal to the rear door .
remove the bolts that attach the lh door mirror to the lh front door . caution use only hand tools to remove or install the fasteners . do not use impact or power tools .
fasten the clips that attach the rear lh primary body seal to the mid cpillar , the upper bpillar , and the mid bpillar .
fasten the clips that attach the front lh primary body seal to the mid apillar , the upper bpillar , and the mid bpillar .
disconnect the electrical wiring harness from the lh door mirror connector s .
install the heat pad connector to the seat frame note 1x connector , 1x clip , slide connector onto seat frame clip to secure
lower the vehicle fully , and chock a wheel .
install the clip that attaches the front drive unit ground strap to the front drive unit .
in toolbox , type `` window '' in the search field . note make sure that `` actions '' is selected , if not already .
remove the screws and release the metal clip that attach the lh rear window motor/regulator assembly to the lh rear door , and then remove the assembly from the door . caution never loosen or remove the nuts that attach the regulator arms to the assembly closeout panel .
remove the lh front door inner belt seal from the door . see seal inner belt front door lh .
install the electrical harness connector to the rear window switch .
release the clips that attach the lower bolt cover to the rh front door trim panel , and then remove the lower bolt cover from the door panel .
press down on the driver window switch assembly , and at the same time , release the clips that attach the window switch to the door trim panel . tip : use a 45 degree pick or a pocket screw driver to release the clips . tip : pull up on the manual release handle for access , and then use thumb to push down on the switch to release it . informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note replace the door trim if any tab is broken during removal .
install the lh rear door trim panel . see panel door trim rear lh .
release the clip that attaches the lh door mirror electrical harness to the lh front door , and then remove the mirror from the door .
pull the seal strings from the new seal .
tuck the seal into the bright molding , and make sure that it fits properly to the trim panels and the headliner .
release the clips that attach the electrical wiring harness to the closeout panel .
connect the heat pad connector note 1x connector
remove the lift adaptors from the body , and then install the body plugs .
install the bolt that attaches the ground strap to the front drive unit . 6 nm
inspect the condition of the mounting holes for the lh rear window motor/regulator assembly . note install rivnuts where any of the mounting hole threads are stripped . use a 7.5mm drill to prepare the hole for rivnut installation .
remove the plugs that allow access to the window motor/regulator assembly .
secure the clips that attach the rear window switch to the door trim panel .
remove the puddle light from the rh front door trim panel .
disconnect the driver window switch electrical connector , and then remove the switch from the vehicle .
pull upwards to remove the lh front door glass run seal from the lh front door .
press the seal into the lower corners , and then install the rest of the seal to the body . note stretch and tuck the seal so that it is evenly distributed around the perimeter .
remove the bolts that attach the closeout panel to the door . 4 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 8 mm socket 2 in extension
install the seat occupied sensor onto the seat frame note 1x clip
remove the chock , and with an assistant , push the vehicle away from the lift to a stall , and then rechock the wheel . caution push the vehicle for a very short distance and at less than 1 mph .
press the lh rear window switch down to the second position to activate the autolower function , and then raise the window completely to active the autoraise function . note if the lh rear window does not lower completely , repeat steps 3 through 5 .
install the lh rear window motor/regulator assembly to the lh rear door , handinstall the screws and fasten the metal clip that attach the assembly to the door , and then tighten the screws . 4 nm
connect a window switch special tool to the lh front door harness .
install the lh rear door trim panel . see panel door trim rear lh .
release the clips that attach the front passenger window switch to the door trim panel . tip : release the front clips first , and then release the outer rear clips while pushing the front passenger window switch to release it from the door trim panel . note replace any broken door panel clips
remove the jumper harness from the new driver window switch .
position the new lh front door glass run seal on the lh front door . tip : if necessary , apply a small amount of p80 lubricant on the length of the seal to aid installation .
release the clips that attach the closeout panel to the door and window regulator , and then remove the closeout panel from the vehicle . figure 1 . closeout panel and window regulator shown , other assemblies hidden for clarity note pass the electrical wiring harness through the hole in the closeout panel , as the closeout panel is being removed .
connect the seat occupied sensor connector note 1x connector
use the taper step gauge to check the gap and flush of the handle to the door surface . gap : 1mm +1.5/0.0mm flush : 0.5mm +2.5/0.5mm note perform this procedure only when the gap or flush is outside of specification .
remove the rear lh door trim panel . see panel door trim rear lh .
place 2 pieces of masking tape vertically across the moving glass and outer belt , and cut the tape near the edge where the glass meets the seal .
fasten the clips that attach the manual latch release cable to the lh rear window motor/regulator assembly .
check the lh front window glass fitment with a gap and flush tool .
raise the lh front window .
remove the front passenger window switch from the vehicle .
position the driver window switch into the vehicle , connect the electrical connector , and then secure the clips that attach the switch to the door trim panel .
press the lh front window switch down to the second position to activate the autolower function , and then raise the window completely to activate the autoraise function . note if the lh front window does not lower completely , repeat steps 3 through 5 .
position the lh door mirror on the lh front door , and then install the clip that attaches the mirror electrical harness to the door .
install rivnuts where any of the mounting holes for the closeout panel are stripped . use a 7.5mm drill to prepare the hole for rivnut installation .
install the seat cushion retaining clips onto the seat suspension note 2x clips , the seat cushion and trim may need to be pulled tight for the hooks to achieve correct placement on the seat suspension
if the hv battery was retrofitted with a harness type dc input or is of the busbar type dc input , the 3rd lh inner bolt is no longer needed . caution under these conditions , do not install the 3rd lh inner hv battery bolt .
remove the lh rear door inner belt seal . see seal inner belt rear door lh .
remove the lh front door inner belt seal . see seal inner belt front door lh .
connect the electrical harness to lh rear window motor/regulator assembly .
fully lower the lh front window , and then open the lh front door .
apply masking tape onto the front lh door glass and lh front door , and then use a plastic trim tool to cut the tape where the glass meets the door .
install the front passenger window switch onto the rh front door trim panel .
hook the front edge of the bolt cover to the door panel , move the puddle light harness into the door panel , and then pivot the bolt cover up .
install the bolts that attach the lh door mirror to the lh front door . 15 nm caution use only hand tools to remove or install the fasteners . do not use impact or power tools .
install the inboard seat trim retaining clip onto the seat frame note 1x clip strip , fold the clip over towards the frame , the open end should engage the seat frame , if not the trim will need to be pulled until the correct amount of tension is achieved , line up one end of the clip strip opening with the seat frame and press down until the clip is fully seated onto the frame
remove the rear lh door trim panel . see panel door trim rear lh .
remove the rear trunk sill trim . see trim sill trunk .
remove the plugs that cover the opening in the door for access to the bolts .
remove the plugs that cover the openings in the door to gain access to the bolts that attach the window glass .
remove the front lh door glass . see glass door lh front .
remove the plugs that cover the openings in door for access to the regulator isolator clamps .
install the lh rear door glass . see glass door lh rear . note adjust the door glass and recalibrate the window motor/regulator assembly as part of the installation .
remove the guideblock door plugs .
remove the lh rear window motor/regulator assembly . see window motor / regulator assembly rear lh .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the door glass to the regulator isolator clamps , and then remove the door glass from the door . informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note replace the regulator isolation clamps , if damaged . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 2 in extension
install the puddle light onto the rh front door trim panel .
install the bolt that attaches the lower bolt cover to the lh front door trim panel . 6 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : t30 socket
install the clips that attach the lh front door glass run seal to the lh front door .
install the front seat trim retaining clip onto the seat frame note 1x clip strip , fold the clip over towards the frame , the open end should engage the seat frame , if not the trim will need to be pulled until the correct amount of tension is achieved , line up one end of the clip strip opening with the seat frame and press down until the clip is fully seated onto the frame
install the dcdc ground busbar . see busbar dcdc ground .
remove the lh rear door inner belt seal . see seal inner belt rear door lh .
disconnect the electrical harness from the interior power trunk switch .
disconnect the electrical connectors from the trunk exterior release switch and the rear facing camera .
use masking tape to mark the location of the trunk striker .
use masking tape to mark the location of the hood striker on the hood assembly .
temporarily connect the puddle light to the lh rear door harness . caution route the electrical cable so that it will not be damaged when closing the door .
connect the window switch special tool and lower the window to access the regulator isolation clamps .
temporarily connect the puddle lamp to the lh front door harness . caution route the electrical cable so that it will not be damaged when closing the door .
adjust the window glass height by rotating the guideblock bolts , as illustrated . figure 1 . forward guideblock bolt shown , rearward guideblock bolt similar
disconnect the window switch special tool .
install the lower bolt cover onto the rh front door trim panel .
raise the lh front window and close the lh front door .
connect the mirror electrical harness to the connectors on the lh front door .
install the outboard seat trim retaining clip onto the seat frame note 1x clip strip , fold the clip over towards the frame , the open end should engage the seat frame , if not the trim will need to be pulled until the correct amount of tension is achieved , line up one end of the clip strip opening with the seat frame and press down until the clip is fully seated onto the frame
install the bolts that attach the lh and rh inner 2nd row rails to the penthouse cover . 24 nm
remove the lh rear door exterior release handle . see handle exterior release door rear lh .
remove the screws that attach the interior power trunk switch to the power trunk lid trim , and then remove the switch from the trim . 1 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t20 socket ratchet/torque wrench
release the clips that attach the trunk exterior release switch to the liftgate .
remove the bolts that attach the trunk striker to the body , and then remove the striker from the vehicle .
use a t40 socket to remove the bolts that attach the hood striker to the hood , and then remove the striker from the hood .
connect the window switch special tool and lower the door glass so that the regulator isolator clamp bolts are accessible from the holes .
loosen the fasteners that attach the window glass to the window regulator clamps about 1/2 turn to maintain the position of the window but still allow adjustment . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench 2 in extension
disconnect the electrical wiring harness from the door handle connector .
connect the window switch tool , and then position the door glass so that the regulator isolator clamp bolts are accessible from the holes .
close the lh front door , and then fully raise the lh front window .
remove the plugs that covers access to the lh rear door exterior release handle nuts .
disconnect the lh front door window motor electrical connector .
install the clips that attach the window switch wiring harness to the rh front door trim panel , and then connect the window switch electrical connector .
install the lh front door inner belt seal . see seal inner belt front door lh .
if the hv battery dc input is configured with busbars , continue to the next step , otherwise skip to step 95 .
exercise the handle mechanism , pulling the handle to the maximum position and releasing it , 5 times .
remove the lh rear window motor/regulator assembly . see window motor / regulator assembly rear lh .
remove the switch from the vehicle .
align the trunk striker with the masking tape on the body , and then handtighten the bolts that attach the trunk striker to the body .
install the striker on to the hood , but do not fully torque the bolts . note use the masking tape and hood indentations as a guide .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the door glass to the regulator isolator clamps , and then remove the door glass from the door . note lift the glass up and then away from the run channel to remove it from the door . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench 2 in extension note replace the regulator isolator clamps , if damaged .
adjust the window glass position to achieve the gap target , and then hand tighten the fasteners .
remove the plugs that cover access to the door handle nuts .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the door glass to the regulator isolator clamps , and then remove the door glass from the door . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 2 in extension note replace the regulator isolation clamps , if damaged .
check the lh front window glass fitment with a gap and flush tool . if glass fitment is within spec , go to step 16 if glass fitment can not be brought within spec by adjusting the guideblocks , proceed to the next step .
remove the nuts that attach the lh rear door exterior release handle to the door , and then remove the handle from the door . 7 nm note do not replace nyloc nuts . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 6 in extension
install the puddle light electrical connector to the rh front door trim panel .
place the seat back frame onto the cushion frame for installation note the seat back frame can rest on the cushion frame without fasteners
use an alcohol wipe to clean the charge port busbar connector lead contact surfaces of residual penetrox , and allow at least one minute to dry .
if the handle binds or slows down during the exercise , replace the handle .
remove the lh front door exterior release handle . see handle exterior release door front lh .
install the switch to the vehicle .
close the trunk and check gap/flush .
close the hood and use the gap and flush tool to verify alignment is within specification .
position the door glass into the rear door .
remove the nuts that attach the door handle to the door , and then remove the handle from the door . 7 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 6 in extension
position the front lh door glass onto the front lh door , and then hand tighten the bolts that secure the glass to the regulator isolation clamps . note make sure the isolator clamps are not bottomed out on the regulator .
place two pieces of masking tape over the window glass and lh front door outer belt seal , and then carefully cut across the tape where the glass meets the seal , as illustrated . tip : this step will help you remember the original position of the glass while you are adjusting it .
when a new handle is installed , or the removed handle is installed onto a new door , perform an adjustment of the handle . see handle exterior release door rear lh .
install the rh front door trim panel . see panel door trim front lh .
install the outboard fasteners securing the seat back frame to the cushion frame note 2x patch bolts , t50 , 43 nm , install new patch bolts
use an alcohol wipe to clean the dc input hv header terminal contact surfaces of residual penetrox , and allow at least one minute to dry .
remove the shims from the handle , noting which shims are for which mounting hole .
remove the screws that attach the hall sensor to the lh rear door exterior handle , and then remove the sensor from the handle .
remove the front lh door exterior release handle . see handle exterior release door front lh .
install new clips that attach the trunk exterior release switch to the trunk .
open the trunk and adjust the striker position as necessary .
open the hood and adjust the striker position as necessary .
install the new bolts that attach the door glass to the regulator isolator clamps . 9.5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench 2 in extension
raise the lh rear window using the driver 's master switch .
when a new handle is installed , or the removed handle is installed onto a new door , perform an adjustment of the handle . see handle exterior release door front lh .
align the center of the glass with the guide block opening .
install the inboard fasteners securing the seat back frame to the cushion frame note 2x patch bolts , t50 , 43 nm , install new patch bolts
apply two small drops of penetrox onto each dc input hv header terminal contact surface .
enlarge the handle mounting holes to 10mm diameter . note the shims might need to be enlarged as well .
install the screws that attach the new hall sensor to the door handle . 1.2 nm
remove the screws that attach the hall sensor to the lh door exterior release handle , and then remove the hall sensor from the release handle .
connect the electrical connectors to the trunk exterior release switch and the rear facing camera .
repeat step 2 and step 3 until alignment is satisfactory .
install the inner belt seal to the rear door ; attach the inner belt seal with clips . tip : press the inner belt seal down into the rear door .
check the gap and flush on the lh rear window and adjust it , if necessary .
install the lh front door inner belt seal onto the door . see seal inner belt front door lh .
remove the regulator isolation clamp door plugs .
install the seat belt buckle onto the cushion frame note 1x patch bolt , t50 , 40 nm , install new patch bolt
install the charge port busbar connector onto the dc input hv header , and then install the bolts that attach the connector to the header . 9 nm
if the hv battery was retrofitted with a harness type dc input or is of the busbar type dc input , the 3rd rh inner bolt is no longer needed . caution under these conditions , do not install the 3rd rh inner hv battery bolt .
remove the temporary setting feature tab from the handle .
install the lh rear door exterior release handle . see handle exterior release door rear lh .
install the screws that attach the hall sensor to the lh door exterior release handle . 1.2 nm
install the trunk lid trim . see trim lid trunk .
fully tighten the bolts that attach the trunk striker to the vehicle . 24 nm
fully tighten the bolts . 18 nm
adjust the door glass . see glass door lh rear .
open the lh rear door .
lower the front lh window fully .
connect the puddle lamp to the door electrical harness .
connect seat belt buckle connector note 1x connector
perform a zero adjust of the hioki resistance meter in preparation to measure resistances . see resistance meter .
return the shims to the handle . note use grease to temporarily hold the shims in place on the handle .
position the lh rear window motor/regulator assembly onto the door for installation .
install the front lh door exterior release handle . see handle exterior release door front lh .
connect a laptop with toolbox 3 to the vehicle . note vehicle connection is integrated into drivers footwell cover , open the toolbox 3 website https : //toolbox.teslamotors.com
remove the masking tape and install the rear trunk sill trim . see trim sill trunk .
remove the masking tape , and then close the hood .
install the rear door trim panel . see panel door trim rear lh .
loosen the lower regulator mounting nuts . adjust the window regulator angle by turning the mounting stud . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm combination wrench 12pt 2 in extension 3 mm hex note one turn of the lower regulator nut equals 1 mm adjustment ; clockwise turns adjusts the window angle outwards and counterclockwise adjusts the window inwards .
connect the window switch special tool to the door electrical harness , and then raise the lh front window to access the regulator isolation clamps .
install the seat belt buckle harness clip note 1x clip
put on the hv insulating gloves and leather over gloves .
install the handle onto the door , and then install and handtighten the nuts that attach the handle to the door .
remove the bolt that attaches the access panel to the underside of the armrest . 6 nm
remove the lh rear window regulator . see window motor / regulator assembly rear lh .
remove the front lh door closeout panel . see closeout panel door front lh .
install the bolts that attach the lh rear window motor/regulator assembly to the door . 4 nm note hand start the bolts to avoid stripping the threads .
install the lh front door closeout panel . see closeout panel door front lh .
hand tighten the regulator fasteners .
raise the lh front window fully by accessing the window switch tool through the lh rear door .
loosen the bolts that attach the window glass to the regulator isolation clamps by half a turn .
rotate the seat to gain access to the underside of the seat note protect seat cushion from damage
use the hioki resistance meter to measure the resistance between the charge port busbar connector lead and the dc input hv header bolt head . note the acceptable resistance is between 0.050 mω and 0.195 mω . if the measured resistance is above 0.195 mω , escalate to service engineering . note if the resistance is lower than 0.050 mω , reposition the probes and measure again . if after 4 attempts the resistance is consistently lower than 0.050 mω , the test has passed ; continue to the next step .
mark the position of the lh rear door striker using masking tape .
mark the position of the lh front door striker using masking tape .
use the taper step gauge to check the gap and flush of the handle to the door surface . gap : 1mm +1.5/0.0mm flush : 0.5mm +2.5/0.5mm
release the clips that attach the access panel to the underside of the lh rear door armrest , and then remove the access panel from the vehicle .
disconnect the electrical connector from the latch .
release the hood latch actuator cable from the hood latch . note release the clip before removing the actuator cable from the latch arm .
disconnect the lh rear door electrical harness from the lh rear door latch connector .
disconnect the electrical harness from the door latch connector .
install the clips that attach the manual latch release cable to the window regulator panel .
install the lh front door speaker . see speaker front door lh .
in toolbox , click the dashboards tab and select infotainment dashboard .
use toolbox to perform the lh rear door calibration procedure .
hand tighten the lower regulator mounting nuts .
inspect the front lh window for proper gap and flushness : gap 8 mm +/ 1.7 mm ; flushness 0 mm +/ 1.7 mm .
close the lh front door , and then use the window switch special tool to raise the lh front window fully .
install the seat back harness connector to the seat bottom
repeat step 90 for the other charge port busbar connector lead and dc input hv header bolt head .
remove the bolts that attach the lh rear door striker to the body , and then remove the striker from the vehicle .
remove the power trunk latch cover . see cover latch power trunk .
remove the lh hood gas strut . see gas strut hood lh .
remove the bolts that attach the lh front door striker to the body . note use of the following tool is recommended : t45 socket
remove the trunk assembly . see trunk .
insert shims between the handle and door inside surface at the handle mounting studs to adjust the gap and flush of the handle , if necessary . note do not stack any more than two shims per mounting stud .
use a pick to pull the manual release cable out from the opening under the armrest . note the manual release cable is hidden behind a small hole in the door panel . note the insulating foam may be damaged during this step . check for and remove any fragments of the foam .
remove the bolts that attach the latch to the trunk lid , and then remove the latch from the vehicle . note use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket
disconnect the electrical harness from the hood latch connector . caution do not push down on the red locking tab . pull the tab away from the connector until the connector is unlocked , and then continue pulling to release the connector .
remove the bolts that attach the lh rear door latch to the rear of the lh rear door . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t25 socket 4 in extension
remove the bolts that attach the latch to the rear of the door . 10 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t25 socket 4 in extension
position the window glass onto the door for installation .
install the front lh door glass . see glass door lh front .
select infotainment tasks and reset das .
in toolbox , select the `` actions '' tab , and then type `` window '' in the search field .
adjust the window glass position , and then hand tighten the bolts .
connect the seat heater harness note 1x connector
handtighten the bolts that attach the lh rear door striker to the body .
disconnect the electrical harness from the trunk cinch latch .
remove nuts that attach the lh hood strut bracket to hood , then remove the strut .
near the lh side of the vehicle interior where the trunk garnish was removed , disconnect the electrical harness from the trunk power strut electrical connector .
remove the lh front door striker from the vehicle .
when the gap and flush are within specification , tighten the nuts that attach the handle to the door . 7 nm
pull the manual release cable to open the lh rear door .
position the latch and loosely install the bolts that attach the latch to the trunk lid . note use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket
mark the location of the hood latch with a paint pen or masking tape .
move the lh rear door latch cable grommet in through the lh rear door bulkhead , while at the same time , move the latch cable in and remove the latch from the door .
press the latch cable grommet in through the door , and move the cable in through the opening while simultaneously removing the latch from the door .
install the new bolts that attach the window glass to the regulator isolator clamps . 12 nm
click run and allow routine to complete .
raise the lh rear window fully using the driver 's master switch .
if the glass gap and flushness is out of specifications : loosen the bolts that attach the glass to the regulator isolator clamps approximately 1/2 turn to maintain position of the glass but still allow adjustment of the glass , and then adjust the glass to gap and flushness specifications .
check the lh front window glass fitment with a gap and flush tool . if glass fitment is within spec , go to step 7 . if glass fitment can not be brought within spec by adjusting the isolation clamps , proceed to the next step .
rotate the seat back to the upright position
install the bolt that secures the charge port busbar connector access door . 9 nm
close the lh rear door and verify the door position ; adjust the position of the striker and verify fitment , if necessary .
remove the bolts that attach the trunk cinch latch to the trunk lid , and then slide the latch downwards to release the tabs and remove the latch . 8 nm use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 4 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
install the lh hood strut bracket from hood .
push the trunk power strut rubber grommet through the body of the vehicle .
handtighten the bolts that attach the lh front door striker to the body . note use of the following tool is recommended : t45 socket
use masking tape to mark the position of the trunk hinge on the body .
remove the insulating foam from the manual release cable .
connect the electrical connector to the latch .
remove the bolts that attach the hood latch to the front end carrier , and then remove the latch from the vehicle . 8 nm use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
release the primary hood latch actuator cable from the hood latch . note release the clip before removing the primary latch actuator cable from the hood latch arm .
install the lh rear door latch into the lh rear door , while at the same time , move the latch cable out through the door , and then secure the latch cable grommet in the door .
install the clips that attach the inner belt seal to the door .
verify that the rear facing camera works properly .
press the lh rear window switch down to the second position to activate the autolower function , then pull the rear window switch up to the second position to activate the autoraise function . note if the window does not lower completely , repeat the previous calibration steps .
check the lh rear window for gap and flush and readjust , if necessary .
once the glass gap and flushness is in specifications , hand tighten the bolts that attach the glass to the regulator isolator clamps .
install the seat harness to seat back frame for installation note 3x clips
tighten the bolts that attach the lh rear door striker to the body . 26 nm
install the lh hood gas strut . see gas strut hood lh .
support the trunk with a prop .
close the lh front door and verify the door position ; adjust the position of the striker and verify fitment , if necessary .
close the trunk to check gap/flush and , if necessary , perform adjustments .
release the secondary hood latch actuator cable from the hood latch . note release the clip before removing the secondary latch actuator cable from the hood latch arm .
install and handtighten the bolts that attach the lh rear door latch to the rear of the lh rear door .
connect the window switch special tool .
while holding the mounting stud in position with a 3 mm allen wrench , loosen the forward and rearward lower regulator mounting nuts by 3 turns . figure 2 . forward and rearward regulator mounting nuts figure 3 . allen wrench holding rearward mounting stud in position , forward stud similar
connect the lumbar pump note 1x connector
release the secondary hood latch actuator cable from the hood latch . note release the clip before removing the actuator cable from the latch arm .
release the clip that attaches the upper end of the trunk power strut to the trunk lid , and then separate the power strut from the trunk lid ball stud .
tighten the bolts that attach the lh front door striker to the body . 26 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : t45 socket
install the plugs that cover access to the lh rear door exterior release handle nuts .
open the trunk and torque the bolts that attach the latch to the trunk lid . 8 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket
disconnect the electrical connector from the hood latch connector .
connect the lh rear door electrical harness to the lh door latch connector .
connect the electrical connector to the lh rear door puddle light .
lower the window for access to the regulator isolation clamps .
adjust the regulator angle by turning the mounting studs , as illustrated . note one rotation moves the glass 1 mm . note the glass adjustment range is 2 to 14 mm . if the current glass positioning is unknown , loosen the regulator mounting nut and rotate the mounting stud clockwise until it bottoms out , and then turn the stud counterclockwise 2 turns . this will set the glass at the minimum 2 mm . figure 4 . rearward mounting stud shown , forward stud similar
connect the lumbar valve pack and ecu note 1x connector
disconnect the electrical connector from the hood latch actuator .
disconnect the electrical connector from the secondary hood latch actuator .
disconnect the electrical harness from the primary hood latch actuator connector .
release the clip that attaches the lower end of the trunk power strut to the vehicle , and then remove the power strut from the vehicle .
connect the electrical harness to the lh rear door exterior release handle connector .
mark the location of the hood latch with masking tape .
connect the lh rear door electrical harness to the puddle light , and remove the shop towel from the lh rear door striker .
raise the window fully and close the lh rear door .
tighten the fasteners that attach the window glass to the window regulator . 9.5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench 2 in extension
check again the gap and flushness of the front lh door glass and make adjustments , if necessary .
after the window glass angle adjustment is complete , hand tighten both lower regulator nuts .
connect the recliner motor note 1x connector
remove the bolts that attach the hood latch actuator to the front end carrier , and then remove the actuator from the vehicle . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
release the clip that attaches the secondary hood latch actuator to the front end carrier .
release the clip that attaches the primary hood latch actuator electrical connector to the body .
clean both ball joints on the vehicle with an ipa wipe .
install the lh rear window motor/regulator assembly . see window motor / regulator assembly rear lh .
install the plugs that cover access to the lh front door exterior release handle nuts .
remove the bolts that attach the hood latch to the front end carrier , and then remove the latch from the vehicle . 8 nm
adjust lh rear door gap and flush at the lh rear door striker .
adjust the gap and flush of the door glass , if necessary . see glass door lh rear .
tighten the fasteners that attach the window regulator to the closeout panel . 10 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension
close the lh front door , and then fully raise the window glass .
connect lh front seat side air bag note 1x connector
install the bolts that attach the hood latch actuator to the front end carrier . 5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
remove the bolts that attach the secondary hood latch actuator to the front end carrier , and then remove the actuator from the vehicle .
remove the bolts that attach the primary hood latch actuator to the front end carrier , and remove the actuator from the vehicle . 5 nm
install the rear lh door glass . see glass door lh rear .
connect the wiring harness to the lh front door exterior release handle connector .
torque the bolts that attach the lh rear door latch to the rear of the lh rear door . 10 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t25 socket 4 in extension
disconnect the window switch special tool .
if installed , disconnect the window switch special tool and reconnect the window switch electrical connector .
tighten the bolts that secure the glass to the regulator isolator clamps . 9.5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket ¼ in std ratchet ¼ in torque wrench 2 in extension
check the lh front window glass fitment with a gap and flush tool and readjust the window glass if necessary .
install the clips holding the outboard seat back trim to the seat frame note 2x clips
connect the electrical connector to the hood latch actuator .
install the bolts that attach the secondary hood latch actuator to the front end carrier . 5 nm
disconnect the lh rear door electrical harness from the puddle light , and reinstall the shop towel into the lh rear door striker .
connect the lh rear window motor/regulator assembly electrical connector .
install the plugs that cover the openings in the door for access to the fasteners securing the glass .
lower the front lh window .
remove the strips of masking tape from the vehicle .
install the upper flap covering the outboard corner of the seat back frame note pull the flap over the metal tangs to secure
install the hood latch actuator cable to the hood latch . note secure the cable end to the latch arm , and then attach the clip .
connect the electrical connector to the secondary hood latch actuator .
install the plugs that cover the lh rear window motor/regulator assembly bolts .
lower the window glass to access the regulator isolation clamps .
install the lower flap covering the outboard corner of the seat back frame note pull the flap over the metal tangs to secure
install the clip that attaches the secondary hood latch actuator to the front end carrier .
disconnect the electrical connector from the lh rear door puddle light .
get inside the lh 2nd row seat and close the lh rear door .
install the plugs that cover the openings in the door regulator isolation clamps .
tighten the bolts that attach the glass to the regulator isolation clamps . 9.5 nm
install the secondary hood latch actuator cable to the hood latch . note secure the cable end to the latch arm , and then attach the clip .
remove the trunk power strut . see power strut trunk .
install the rear lh door trim panel . see panel door trim rear lh .
lower the lh rear window fully .
install the puddle lamp to the the front door panel .
if previously loosened , tighten the nuts that attach the window regulator to the inner door 10 nm .
apply masking tape on the trunk lid and body of the vehicle to mark the position of the currently installed power trunk hinge .
open the trunk and support it with a prop .
raise the lh rear window fully and continue to hold the window switch for 10 seconds after the window stops .
if removed , install the lh front door speaker . see speaker front door lh .
install the driver seat back shell . see shell seat back driver .
open the hood and support it with a prop .
remove the actuator . see actuator pedestrian protection lh .
with assistance , remove the bolts that attach the trunk power hinge to the trunk lid . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket 4 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
release the clip that attaches the lower end of the lh trunk gas strut to the hinge on the vehicle .
use a prop to attach the hood assembly in the open position .
get into the driver seat , and then close the lh front door .
press the window switch down to the second position to activate the auto down function , and then activate the auto raise function of the window . if the window does not lower completely , repeat the previous step .
lower the window glass , and then disconnect the window switch special tool .
inspect the defect and determine whether they are low or high risk . if the defect are low risk , continue to the next step . if the defect are high risk , escalate the repair to a body shop . low risk defect characteristics less than 1.5 mm diameter on flat or nearflat body panels less than 1.0 mm diameter on or near character lines high or low spots basic surface paint inclusions holograms swirls solvent pop overspray light to medium depth scratches figure 1 . low risk basic surface paint inclusions figure 2 . low risk basic surface paint inclusions high risk defect characteristics larger than 2.0 mm diameter on flat or nearflat body panels larger than 1.0 mm diameter on or near character lines off color inclusions high or low spots larger than 2.0 mm figure 3 . high risk off color paint inclusion figure 4 . high risk defect on character line
release the clip that attaches the upper end of the lh trunk gas strut to the hinge on the trunk lid , and then remove the strut from the vehicle .
release the clip that attaches the hood gas strut to the hood mount .
in toolbox , type `` window '' in the search field . note make sure `` actions '' is selected , if not already .
exit the vehicle and close the lh front and rear doors .
sit in the driver seat , and then close the lh front door .
disconnect the puddle lamp from the door electrical harness .
skip to step 100 .
remove the lh trunk gas strut . see gas strut trunk lh .
remove the nuts that attach the lh trunk hinge to the body , and remove the hinge from the vehicle . 24 nm
tighten the bolts that attach the center portion of the hv battery through the center ski cover . 35 nm
if the hv battery dc input is configured with busbars , continue to the next step , otherwise skip to step 106 .
if the charge port to hv battery harness has a 3phase connector , continue to the next step , otherwise skip to step 106 .
repeat steps 83 through 86 for the rh shear plate .
use a small flat head screwdriver to release the clip that attaches the gas strut to the lh active hood strut bracket , and then remove the strut from the bracket .
remove the nuts that attach the power trunk hinge to the body , and then remove the hinge from the vehicle . note use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket 4 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
fasten the clip that attaches the charge port to hv harness connector to the lh lower cpillar .
release the clip that attaches the hood gas strut to the hood hinge , and then remove the hood gas strut from the vehicle .
open the lh front door and lower all the windows .
use a small flat head screwdriver to release the clip that attaches the gas strut to the lh passive hood strut bracket , and then remove the strut from the bracket .
remove the bolt that attaches the lh active hood strut bracket to the body , from inside the wheel arch . note use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
apply isopropyl alcohol to the general area of the defect , and then wipe the area with a clean microfiber towel .
position the new power trunk hinge on the vehicle , and then install the nuts that attach the power trunk hinge to the vehicle . 24 nm note align the hinge with the masking tape on the body . note use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket 4 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
lubricate both pivot points on the lh trunk gas strut .
release the clip that attaches the hood gas strut to the body mount , and then remove the hood gas strut from the vehicle .
remove the clips from the lh trunk gas strut .
remove the masking tape from the vehicle .
in toolbox , select the `` actions '' tab , and then type `` window '' in the search field .
install the regulator isolation clamp door plugs .
install the harness clips , and then the bolts that attach the charge port to hv battery harness bracket at the penthouse . 10 nm
repeat step 101 for the other charge port busbar connector lead and dc input hv header bolt head .
remove the clips from the lh hood gas strut .
remove the bolt that attaches the lh passive hood strut bracket to the body , from inside the wheel arch . note use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
remove the bolts that attach the strut bracket to the body , from on top of the bracket , and then remove the bracket from the vehicle . note use of the following tool is recommended : 6 mm hex 2 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
while wearing a nitrile glove , run hand over the area around the dirt inclusion and check for fine bumps in the paint . if bumps are detected , perform clay treatment on the area before proceeding to the next step . if no bumps are detected , proceed to the next step .
with assistance , handtighten the bolts that attach the trunk power hinge to the trunk lid . note align the hinge with the masking tape on the trunk lid . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket 4 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
lubricate the pivot points for the hood gas strut .
use snap ring pliers to install new clips on the gas strut . note align the ends of the clip with the grooves on the strut , and then push the clip onto the strut until the clip is fully seated in the notch . figure 1 . trunk lid side of strut shown , body side similar
press the lh rear window switch down to the lowest position to activate the autolower function , and allow the window to lower completely . note if the window does not lower completely , repeat step 20 and step 21 .
install the front lh door trim panel . see panel door trim front lh .
install the hv cap that covers the hv harness located on the lh side of the penthouse .
use snap ring pliers to install new clips on the gas strut . note align the ends of the clip with the grooves on the strut , and then push the clip onto the strut until the clip is fully seated in the notch . figure 1 . hood side of strut shown , body side similar
disconnect the electrical harness from the windshield heater connector .
clean the inner windshield behind the camera hood with a clean microfiber cloth and glass cleaner . caution make sure there is no residue or debris on the glass .
remove the bolt that attaches the lh passive hood strut bracket to the body , from on top of the bracket , and then remove the bracket from the vehicle . note use of the following tool is recommended : 6 mm hex 2 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
install the lh active hood strut bracket to the boday , and then installl the bolt attaches the bracket to the body , to on top of the bracket . 13 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
apply detail spray to the affected area , and clean the affected area with a decontamination mitt using light and straight passes . continue to the next step when the mitt no longer drags on the paint .
release the clips that attach the lh and rh hood hinge covers to the hood hinges , and then remove the lh and rh hood hinge covers . lh hood hinge cover shown , rh similar
the rod end of the hood gas strut mounts to the body and the body side of the hood gas strut mounts to the hood assembly .
clean the strut ball studs on the hood mount and hood hinge with a clean rag .
pull on the switch to the highest position to activate the autoraise function , and allow the window to raise completely . note if the window does not raise completely , repeat step 20 and step 21 .
press the lh front window switch down to the second position to active the autolower function , and then raise the window fully to activate the autoraise function .
install the guideblock door plugs .
remove the driver sun visor check base . see check base sun visor driver .
install the lh passive hood strut bracket to the body , and then install the bolt that attaches the bracket to the body , to on top of the bracket . 10 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : 6 mm hex 2 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
install the bolt that attaches the lh passive hood strut bracket to the body , from inside the wheel arch . 10 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : 6 mm hex 2 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
install a new sanding disc on the sander .
install the trunk power strut and trunk garnish . see power strut trunk .
position the lh trunk gas strut on the body side hinge ball stud , and then install the clip that attaches the strut to the hinge .
shift into park to release the electronic parking brake service mode , and then remove the wheel chock .
skip to step 111 .
position the lh hood gas strut on hood hinge ball stud , and then install the clip that attaches the strut to the hood hinge .
remove the forward facing triple camera . see camera triple forward facing .
install the bolt that attaches the lh passive hood strut bracket to the body , from inside the wheel arch . 13 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 2 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
install the strut to the lh active hood strut bracket , and then use a small flat head screwdriver to fasten the clip that attaches the strut to the bracket .
spray the sanding disc with water .
close the trunk , and then check trunk gap and flush . note if necessary , adjust the hinge bolts and trunk latch to modify the trunk lid gap/flush . assistance is recommended .
if replacing the lh hood hinge , remove the wiper motor . see wiper module .
position the lh trunk gas strut on the trunk lid side hinge ball stud , and then install the clip that attaches the strut to the hinge .
in toolbox , type window in the search field . note make sure actions is selected .
position the lh hood gas strut on hood mount ball stud , and then install the clip that attaches the strut to the hood mount .
remove the gps antenna . see antenna gps .
install the strut to the lh passive hood strut bracket , and then use a small flat head screwdriver to fasten the clip that attaches the strut to the bracket .
install the actuator . see actuator pedestrian protection lh .
set the sander speed according to region , and while the sander is off , place the disc on top of the dirt inclusion . na : lowest speed apac : tbd emea : tbd
when trunk lid gap/flush is finalized , open the trunk and torque the bolts that attach the power trunk hinge to the trunk lid . 24 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket 4 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
support the hood in the open position .
remove the prop from the trunk .
remove the hood prop .
open the rh front door .
keeping the disc stationary and flush with the body panel , activate the sander for 3 seconds , and then turn off the sander . caution do not run the sander for more than 3 seconds . caution do not remove the sander from the body panel until the disc stops spinning .
if necessary , apply touchup paint to the trunk hinge bolt heads . note shake the paint container before applying paint .
remove the lh and rh hood gas struts . see gas strut hood lh .
close and open the trunk 3 times to verify proper gas strut installation .
close and open the hood 3 times to verify proper gas strut installation .
remove the rh mid apillar trim . see trim apillar middle lh .
remove sanding dust and water from the body panel with a clean microfiber towel .
mark the position of the rh and lh hood hinges to the hood using masking tape .
tighten the 5th lh rear inner bolt that attaches the hv battery to the body . 66 nm note lift up the rear main carpet for access .
remove the rh upper apillar trim . see trim apillar upper lh .
inspect the paint inclusion . if the paint inclusion has been reduced by around 50 % , but less than 90 % , continue to the next step . if the paint inclusion has been reduced by around 90 % , continue to step 1 . if the paint inclusion has not been reduced by at least 50 % , discontinue this procedure and take the vehicle to a body shop .
with an assistant , remove the hood support from the vehicle .
tighten the 4th lh inner bolt that attaches the hv battery to the body . 66 nm
open the lh front door and lower the lh front window .
remove the passenger sun visor . see sun visor driver .
spray the sanding disc with water to remove sanding dust , and then perform steps 6 to 9 up to a maximum of 3 times .
remove the hood . see hood .
if not already present , apply abrasion tape to the harness towards the a/c hv connector , and then connect the a/c hv connector .
unfold the carpet back to its original position .
if the charge port to hv battery harness has a 3phase connector , continue to the next step , otherwise skip to step 117 .
fully lower the lh rear window .
use the touchscreen to clear das calibration . wait for the prompt to automatically disappear before continuing . informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note controls > service > camera calibration > clear calibration informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note verify the calibration was cleared successfully . informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note `` calibration in progress '' message and progress icon will appear during the next drive cycle .
starting at one of the ends of the trunk flip seal , heat up the area surrounding the trunk flip seal to a temperature of approximately 60 ºc , and then pull on the flip seal to remove it from the body . caution do not use too much heat to avoid damage to vehicle components .
remove the passenger sun visor check base . see check base sun visor driver .
apply masking tape to protect the paint on the vehicle .
temporarily secure the defroster grid harness to the outside of the windshield .
install a cutting pad on the buffer , and then apply 4 evenly spaced 20 mm diameter dollops of cutting compound on the cutting pad .
use tape to mark the mounting location of the hinge on the body .
if not already present , apply abrasion tape to the harness towards the ptc hv connector , connect the connector , and then install the harnesses to the bracket .
open all the doors and lower all the windows . note if the vehicle is being powered down , latch the rear doors to prevent accidental closure .
perform trunk gap and flush check informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note refer to cvis for latest specifications
identify any adjacent panels that may also need adjustment to successfully align the hood to within specification . note if multiple panels require adjustment , the best practice is to start with a panel that is adjacent to a fixed panel on the vehicle . note the optimal adjustment order is the following : trunk/liftgate rear doors front doors fenders hood
identify any adjacent panels that may also need adjustment to successfully align the front doors to within specification . note if multiple panels require adjustment , the best practice is to start with a panel that is adjacent to a fixed panel on the vehicle . note the optimal adjustment order is the following : trunk/liftgate rear doors front doors fenders hood
identify any adjacent panels that may also need adjustment to successfully align the fender to within specification . note if multiple panels require adjustment , the best practice is to start with a panel that is adjacent to a fixed panel on the vehicle . note the optimal adjustment order is the following : trunk/liftgate rear doors front doors fenders hood
remove the rear license plate .
release the clips that attach the lh upper bpillar trim to the bpillar , and then move the trim aside .
verify that network connectivity is available to the vehicle by the words `` 3g '' , `` 4g '' , `` lte '' , or the wifi icon appearing in the upper right corner of the touchscreen .
release the clips that attach the screw covers to the lh and rh rear coat hooks .
work your way around until you reach the other end of the trunk flip seal .
release the clips that attach the front of the headliner to the body , and then separate the headliner from the body .
measure and record the gaps from the fixed roof glass to windshield , body sides , and backlight glass . note the gap measurements are used for the installation of the fixed roof glass .
set the buffer speed according to region , and while the buffer is off , place the tool on top of the sanding mark . na : setting 3 apac : tbd emea : tbd
remove the bolts that attach the lh hood hinge to the body , and then remove the hinge from the vehicle . 24 nm lh hood hinge shown , rh similar
tighten the 3rd lh inner hv battery bolt . 66 nm
release the clip that attaches the rear primary seal to the cpillar using a clip prytool .
move the front seats forward .
open trunk from exterior switch
remove the striker for the hood to accurately assess the natural alignment of the assembly . caution forcing the hood gaps into alignment via latch adjustments can lead to premature wear on the hinge and latch assemblies .
remove the striker for the door to accurately assess the natural alignment of the assembly . caution forcing the door into alignment via striker adjustments can lead to premature wear on the hinge and latch assemblies .
identify what directions the fender needs to be adjusted to bring it within specification .
enable service mode . see service mode .
remove the screws that attach the lh and rh rear coat hooks to the body .
use a plastic trim tool to remove any adhesive residue in the trunk flip seal area on the backlight .
release the clips that attach the windshield harness to the fastener track , and then release the harness from the track .
prepare the wrd spider 3 glass removal kit . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : wrd spider 3 157116800a
release the clips that attach the front of the headliner to the body , and then separate the headliner from the body .
keeping the pad flush with the body panel , activate the buffer for 5 seconds , making 1 foot long side to side swipes over the sanding mark .
tighten the lh front inner hv battery bolts that attach the hv battery to the body . 136 nm
pull the lh rear primary seal from the rear quarter glass area by pulling towards the front of the vehicle .
fold the rh 2nd row seat back to the down position .
retract lh overslam bumper to home position informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note 1x overslam bumper , turn clockwise until fully seated onto trunk
identify what directions the hood needs to be adjusted to bring it within specification .
identify what directions the door needs to be adjusted to bring it within specification .
use the images to identify the hardware that needs to be loosened to adjust the fender position in the necessary directions .
remove the lh and rh rear fog/reverse lights . see light fog / reverse rear lh .
release the clip that attach the screw covers to the lh rear coat hook .
touch controls , and then touch service mode .
clean the trunk flip seal area on the backlight using ipa wipes .
remove the windshield fastener track .
secure the line to the starter tool and push the tool through the urethane at the lh rear corner of the fixed roof glass assembly . caution be careful not to damage the headliner assembly and exterior paint .
remove the upper quad camera cover . see quad camera cover upper .
turn off the buffer and remove the buffer from the body panel only when the pad stops spinning .
unfold the lh front main carpet back to its original position ; move the front edge down and slide back the section up to ease positioning . install the seat electrical harness into the clip .
retract rh overslam bumper to home position informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note 1x overslam bumper , turn clockwise until fully seated onto trunk
use the images below to identify the hardware that needs to be loosened to adjust the hood position in the necessary directions .
use the images to identify the hardware that needs to be loosened to adjust the door position in the necessary directions .
loosen the necessary bolts just enough to enable adjusting the fender with a light application of force .
push open the lh coat hook , and then release the clips that attach the screw cover to the coat hook .
remove the screw that attach the lh rear coat hook to the body .
touch software reinstall , and then touch request .
release clips that attach the rear end of the headliner to the body . note if necessary , use an air bladder between the headliner and body for additional clearance . caution be cautious not to damage the headliner .
starting from one of the corners , remove a part of the backing tape from the new seal , and then push it in as far as possible .
release the line from the starter tool and wrap the line around the exterior of the fixed roof glass assembly . note make sure enough length is pulled through the glass . note verify the line sits underneath the glass
remove the cutting compound from the body panel with a clean microfiber towel .
install the clips that attach the lh front carpet to the vehicle .
disconnect the backlight electrical harness from the tuner connector on the rh cpillar .
remove trunk sill trim assembly informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note 4x clips , pull corner upward release clip on the end the away from body for remaining clips
loosen the necessary bolts just enough to enable adjusting the assemblies with a light application of force .
retighten them .
remove the lh and rh license plate lights . see light license plate .
remove the screw that attaches the lh rear coat hook to the body . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : t25 socket 2 in extension
repeat step 3 through step 6 for the rh side of the vehicle .
remove the lower quad camera cover . see quad camera cover lower .
disconnect the backlight electrical harness connector from the antenna amplifier on the lh side cpillar .
work your way around until you reach the other corner .
secure the wire to the starter tool and push the tool through the urethane at the rh lower side of the windshield assembly . caution use the guard to prevent damage to the dash pad while using the starter tool .
attach the anchor point to the interior of the fixed roof glass assembly , and then secure the line to the anchor .
apply one 10 mm diameter dollop of cutting compound on the center of the sanding mark .
move the driver seat fully forwards .
install the clip that attaches the charge port to hv harness connector to the lh lower cpillar .
release the clip that attaches the rh heater grid harness to the vehicle .
mark the location of trunk striker to body
check to see if the fit has improved . caution adjust the fender in only one direction at a time to reduce risk of damage from panels contacting each other during the adjustment process .
remove the trunk latch . see latch trunk .
remove the rear view mirror . see mirror rear view .
disconnect the ground noise filter antenna connector on the lh side of the vehicle .
cut off any overlap length of the seal to match the fixed roof glass seal .
release the line from the starter tool and wrap the line around the exterior of the windshield . note pull the line away from the starter tool . make sure enough length is pulled through . note verify the line sits underneath the glass
secure the interior side of the line to the spider cutting tool . note follow the instructions on the spider tool . feed the line through the opening of the cutting tool and tie a knot to secure the line in place . if the spindle is not turned the proper direction , the cutting tool will be damaged .
disconnect the humidity and temperature sensor electrical connector .
set the buffer speed according to region , and while the buffer is off , place the buffer on top of the sanding mark . na : setting 5 apac : tbd emea : tbd
tighten the 5th rh rear inner bolt that attaches the hv battery to the body . 66 nm
break the locating posts on the interior side of the lh rear quarter body glass using diagonal cutters and a flat head screwdriver to assist with the removal of the glass .
gently disconnect the rh harness connector from the heater grid . caution be careful when disconnecting the connector as the heater grid is easily damaged .
remove the trunk striker informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note 2x bolts , t45 , 24 nm
check to see if the fit has improved . caution adjust the hood in only one direction at a time to reduce risk of damage from panels contacting each other during the adjustment process .
check to see if the door fit has improved . caution adjust the door in only one direction at a time to reduce risk of damage from panels contacting each other during the adjustment process .
repeat the process until the fender fit is within gap and flushness specifications .
release the clip and tabs that attach the lh rear cpillar trim to the body , and then set the trim aside . note pull the rear of the trim forward , and then upward to remove it .
remove the triple camera hood . see r hood triple camera .
release the lh side backlight busbar harness from the body .
attach the anchor point to the exterior of the windshield near the starting point of the handle tool , and then secure the line to the anchor .
secure the spider cutting tool to the interior side of the fixed roof glass assembly . note note the orientation of the cutting line . make sure the line wraps over the large pulley and holds a 90 degree angle .
disconnect the gps antenna electrical connector .
keeping the pad flush with the body panel , activate the buffer .
tighten the 4th rh inner bolt that attaches the hv battery to the body , if equipped . 66 nm
clean the exterior area of the lh rear quarter body glass .
fold the lh 2nd row seat back to the down position .
loosen bolts securing hinge onto trunk assembly informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note 4x bolts , 13mm , 24 nm , perform adjustment as necessary , recommend assistance
repeat the process until the hood fit is within gap and flushness specifications .
repeat the process until the door fit is within gap and flushness specifications .
retorque all hardware that was loosened back to factory values .
release the clips that attach the trunk electrical harness to the trunk lid .
disconnect the electrical harness from the occupant camera on the inside of the upper quad camera cover , and then remove the camera cover from the vehicle .
disconnect the 12v noise filter antenna connector on the rh side of the vehicle .
secure the angle driver to the electric drill .
remove the screw that attaches the windshield harness to the windshield bracket , and then move the harness aside .
apply pressure until the buffer begins to stall , and then reduce pressure until the buffer rotates normally .
unfold the rh side of the rear carpet back to its original position .
apply masking tape to the rear around the lh rear quarter body glass to protect the body and paint .
tighten bolts securing hinge onto trunk assembly informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note 4x bolts , 13mm , 24 nm , hand tighten bolts securing hinge onto trunk assembly
release the electrical harness boot , and then move the trunk electrical harness through the trunk lid bulkhead and out of the trunk lid .
remove the screws that attach the triple camera assembly to the windshield bracket , and then release the assembly from the bracket .
release the rh side backlight busbar harness from the body .
secure the spider cutting tool to the interior side of the windshield . note note the orientation of the cutting line . make sure the line wraps over the large pulley and holds a 90 degree angle .
turn the spindle on the cutting tool with the drill to start remove the fixed roof glass assembly . note move the cutting tool as needed , keeping the line close to a 90 degree angle . caution when passing the vin plate , use the guard to guide the line over the plate to prevent damage .
disconnect the windshield electrical harness connectors from the rh vehicle harness , and pull windshield electrical harness up through the opening on the rh side of the instrument panel .
at a rate of 1 inch per second , move the buffer side to side in a 6 inch area centered on the paint inclusion . caution keep the tool level and continuously moving .
move the front passenger seat fully rearward .
apply masking tape onto the lh rear quarter glass assembly and body , and then mark the current position to aid in installation .
close the trunk to check gap / flush informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note perform adjustment as necessary , recommend assistance if necessary , refer to cvis for latest specifications https : //confluence.teslamotors.com/display/cvis/cvis+home/
reinstall the striker and torque to factory values .
reinstall the striker .
release the clips that attach the lh and rh bump stops to the trunk lid , and then remove the stops from the trunk lid .
push open the rh coat hook , and then release the clips that attach the screw cover to the coat hook .
disconnect the electrical connector from the humidity and temperature sensor .
disconnect the backlight electrical harness connector from the tuner on the rh cpillar .
using a plastic trim tool , pry out the rear edge of the lh quarter brightwork from the lh rear quarter body glass to release , and then work across the glass to remove it from the vehicle . caution use caution with the clip that attaches the rear quarter brightwork to the lh upper body side brightwork .
attach suction cups to each corner of the fixed roof glass .
release the clips that attach the windshield electrical harness to the rh apillar area .
turn the buffer off after 15 seconds or when the cutting compound begins to dissipate . remove the buffer from the body panel only when the pad stops spinning .
tighten the bolt that attaches the 3rd rh inner hv battery bolt to the body , if equipped .
set up a pair of thandles with square wire 6 feet long .
release the clip that attaches the lh heater grid harness to the vehicle .
adjust lh overslam bumper as necessary informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note 1x overslam bumper
adjust the hood latch until the hood latches securely in place without excessive closing effort and sits flush to adjacent panels in the fully latched position .
adjust the striker until the door closes in a smooth motion with minimal effort and is correctly aligned to adjacent panels in the fully latched position . note if the door requires excessive force to close , does not latch , or does not maintain proper alignment with the striker installed , then the striker may require adjustment .
unscrew the lh and rh overslam bumpers from the trunk lid .
remove the screw that attaches the rh rear coat hook to the body . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : t25 socket 2 in extension
use a ph00 screwdriver to remove the screws that attach the humidity and temperature sensor to the windshield bracket . informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note use the correct screwdriver to remove the screws , otherwise it might strip the screw heads . informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note the screws are tiny , make sure not to misplace them .
remove any remaining clip parts from the upper portion of the lh quarter brightwork .
turn the spindle on the cutting tool with the drill to start remove the windshield . note move the cutting tool as needed , keeping the line close to a 90 degree angle . caution when passing the vin plate , use the guard to guide the line over the plate to prevent damage .
with an assistant , remove the fixed roof glass from the vehicle .
release the clips that attach the windshield electrical harness to the fastener track on the windshield , and then remove the harness from the windshield .
tighten the rh front inner bolts that attach the hv battery to the body . 136 nm
wrap the square wire around the rear edge of the lh rear quarter body glass between the body the seal .
gently disconnect the lh harness connector from the heater grid . caution be careful when disconnecting the connector as the heater grid is easily damaged .
retorque the striker hardware to factory values .
with assistance , remove the bolts that attach the trunk lid to the trunk hinges , and then remove the trunk from the hinges . caution remove the bolts furthest from the body first , lift up on the trunk lid , and while doing so , remove the bolts closest to the body . figure 1 . lh figure 2 . rh
release the clips that attach the rear edge of the headliner to the body . note use an air bladder between the headliner and body for additional clearance if necessary . caution be careful not to damage the headliner .
remove the relative humidity and temperature sensor from the windshield bracket . note angle the sensor circuit board up and over the plastic alignment pin , and then move the sensor circuit board upwards to clear the pin .
remove and discard the rear seal from the backlight glass . note the new backlight glass comes with a new rear seal preinstalled .
using a retractable blade knife , cut down the rubber seal around the lh rear quarter body glass to allow greater access when removing the glass . note this action will avoid causing damage to the body and keep the wire from getting stuck in the seal when cutting the lh rear quarter body glass .
attach suction cups to the lh and rh sides of the windshield assembly .
remove the suction cups from the fixed roof glass .
remove the fastener track from the windshield with a clip pry tool .
inspect the affected area . if sanding marks are still present , perform steps 6 to 13 . if sanding marks are no longer present , and only hazing/swirling remain , continue to the next step .
unfold the rh front main carpet back to its original position ; move the front edge down and slide back the section up to ease positioning . install the seat electrical harness into the clip .
cut the lh rear quarter body glass from the body , and then remove glass from the vehicle . tip : use a sawing motion to cut through the urethane .
with assistance , install the trunk to the trunk hinges , and then install the bolts that attach the trunk lid to the trunk hinges . caution install the bolts closest to the body first , and then install the bolts furthest from the body . note hand tighten , but do not torque the bolts at this time . figure 3 . lh figure 4 . rh
clean the area where the foam pad of the humidity and temperature sensor circuit board contacts the windshield with an isopropyl alcohol wipe , and then allow the area to dry before continuing . caution make sure the windshield is completely dry before continuing , the foam pad will not stick if the windshield is wet .
remove and discard the front seal from the backlight glass . note the new backlight glass comes with a new rear seal preinstalled .
with an assistant , remove the windshield assembly from the vehicle .
use a scraper to remove old urethane from the body , and then wipe the body to clean the surfaces with isopropyl alcohol wipes .
tape the windshield electrical harness to the inside of the windshield .
turn on the buffer , and then clean the pad with a pad cleaning brush .
if the hv battery dc input is configured with busbars , continue to the next step , otherwise skip to step 124 .
install the clips that attach the rh front carpet to the vehicle .
clean the remaining urethane from the body using a winged scraper set .
screw the lh and rh overslam bumpers into the trunk lid .
release the clip and tabs that attach the rh rear cpillar trim to the body , and then set the trim aside . note pull the rear of the trim forward , and then upward to remove it . figure 1 . lh shown ; rh similar
peel the tape from the new humidity and temperature sensor circuit board , and then install the circuit board on the windshield bracket . informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note slide the connector end of the circuit board under the tab on the windshield bracket , and then press the hole on the circuit board onto the alignment pin of the windshield bracket .
apply masking tape to the exterior of the lh and rh roof pillars to protect the paint from damage .
remove the suction cups from the windshield assembly .
attach suction cups to each corner of the new fixed roof glass .
apply masking tape to the exterior of the lh and rh apillars to protect the paint from damage .
with the buffer still running , use a microfiber towel to remove as much residual compound as possible from the pad , and then turn off the buffer .
move the front passenger seat fully forward .
clean the body around the urethane path with an isopropyl alcohol wipe . allow the area to dry for at least 1 minute .
secure the wire to the starter tool , and then insert the starter tool from the inside of the vehicle through the adhesive bead at the bottom area of the backlight glass . caution use the guard to prevent damage to the rear deck panel while using the starter tool .
install the lh and rh bump stops into the trunk lid , and then fasten the clips that attach the stops to the lid .
use a ph00 screwdriver to install the screws that attach the humidity and temperature sensor to the windshield bracket . 0.12 nm caution use a wiha precision torque wrench or similar to fasten the screws to the windshield bracket . the screw threads in the bracket are very delicate and can strip out very easily .
insert the starter tool from inside the vehicle through the adhesive bead at the bottom area of the backlight glass .
use a razor blade to remove the old urethane from the windshield flange on the vehicle .
clean the leading edge of the fixed roof glass with isopropyl alcohol wipes . allow the surface to dry before continuing to the next step .
put a large towel over the instrument panel for protection .
remove the cutting pad from the buffer , and then install a polishing pad on the buffer .
clean the remaining urethane from the lh rear quarter glass using a plastic trim tool .
release the line from the starter tool and wrap the line around the exterior of the backlight glass assembly . note pull the line away from the starter tool . make sure enough length is pulled through . note verify the line sits underneath the glass and seal .
move the electrical harness in through the trunk lid bulkhead , and attach the harness boot to the trunk lid .
remove the fm antenna amplifier . see amplifier antenna fm .
connect the electrical connector to the humidity and temperature sensor .
insert the end of the nylon cord through the eye of the starter tool and pull it into the inside of the vehicle .
place the new windshield on a support stand with the windshield bracket facing up .
clean the urethane path on the vehicle with an isopropyl alcohol wipes . allow the surface to dry before continuing to the next step .
cut a suitable length of square wire to use with thandles .
release temperature and humidity sensor from windshield bracket caution ensure the correct phillips screwdriver is used . if the screwdriver is too large the fastener will round out . note 2x screws , ph00 philips , 0.12 nm , the fasteners are very small . take care not to drop or misplace them .
apply 4 evenly spaced 20 mm diameter dollops of polishing compound on the polishing pad .
clean the lh rear quarter glass around the urethane path with an isopropyl alcohol wipe . allow the area to dry for at least 1 minute .
attach the anchor point to the interior of the backlight glass assembly , and then secure the line to the anchor .
disconnect the backlight glass heater ground strap from the lh cpillar .
on the vehicle touchscreen , tap the clock , and then tap install now to start the firmware update . informational purposes an informational icon , calling your attention note make sure the firmware package is successfully installed .
clean backlight glass roof with isopropyl alcohol .
remove the masking tape from the rear quarter glass area .
apply urethane primer to the vehicle body along the urethane path and in areas that were damaged during removal of the fixed roof glass . note allow the primer to dry for at least 1 minute .
secure the wire to the starter tool and push the tool through the urethane at the rh lower side of the windshield .
remove temperature and humidity sensor from windshield bracket note use heat gun on outside of windshield to release the adhesive as shown . gently pry board up as heat is applied , angle board up and over plastic alignment pin and move board upward to clear retaining plastic
set the buffer speed according to region , and while the buffer is off , place the tool on top of the affected area . na : setting 3 apac : tbd emea : tbd
apply primer to the urethane path and any areas where the paint was damaged during the removal of the lh rear quarter body glass . allow primer to dry for at least 1 minute before continuing .
remove the rear license plate and license plate bracket .
release the clips that attach the lh and rh hood gas struts to the lh and rh hood strut brackets , and then set the struts aside . figure 1 . rh shown , lh similar
remove the lh side antenna harness from the backlight glass .
positon the python cup assembly in the center of the backlight glass .
clean the urethane path on the vehicle with an isopropyl alcohol wipe . allow the surface to dry before continuing to the next step .
attach the square wire and pull tool back through into the vehicle .
prepare the esd kit note refer to tn1492003 , electrostatic discharge tool . caution : improper use of the esd kit can result in damage to components .
keeping the pad flush with the body panel , activate the buffer for 5 seconds , making 1 foot long side to side swipes over the affected area .
disconnect the lh and rh rear fog/reverse light electrical connectors .
apply primer to the lh rear quarter glass . allow the primer to dry for at least 1 minute .
remove power trunk trim . see trim lid power trunk .
secure the spider cutting tool to the interior side of the backlight glass assembly . note note the orientation of the cutting line . make sure the line wraps over the large pulley and holds a 90 degree angle .
with assistance , remove the nuts that attach the hood to the lh and rh hood hinges . figure 2 . rh shown , lh similar
use tape to mark the mounting locations of the lh and rh hood hinges on the hood .
disconnect the lh harness electrical connector from the heater grid .
tie a blowline knot in the end of nylon cord and insert loop through the anchor tab on the python cup assembly .
apply urethane primer to the vehicle body and windshield along the urethane path and in areas that were damaged during removal of the windshield assembly . caution be careful not to damage the headliner during application . note allow the primer to dry for at least 2 minutes .
apply urethane to the body following the original path . note make sure that the urethane bead has a triangular crosssection of approximate width 13 mm and height 23 mm .
remove the square wire from the starter tool and secure the square wire into one thandle .
place the esd mat flat onto a workbench so that the button connector is closest to the grounding point
disconnect the rear facing camera electrical connector .
open the rear lh door , pass a shop towel halfway through the striker , and then close the door so that it rests against the shop towel .
open the rear lh door , and fully lower the window .
remove rear window motor/regulator assembly . see window motor / regulator assembly rear lh .
prepare the caulking gun and urethane . note the urethane opening must be 7 mm wide and 12 mm tall .
with assistance , remove the hood from the vehicle , and then place it on a padded surface .
with an assistant , remove the nuts that attach the hood assembly to the lh and rh hood hinges .
disconnect the backlight harness electrical connector from the tuner .
install slither unit to the backlight glass .
apply urethane to the windshield following the original path . caution be careful not to damage the headliner during application . note make sure that the urethane bead has a triangular crosssection of approximate width 8 mm and height 13 mm .
with an assistant , install the new fixed roof glass onto the vehicle , but do not set it yet .
make sure that there is adequate square wire and attach it to the second thandle .
snap the button connector on the ground cord to the button connector on the esd mat note make sure the connector is securely fastened to the esd mat
remove the polishing compound from the body panel with a clean microfiber towel , and then identify any remaining hazing/swirling .
disconnect the trunk exterior release switch electrical connector .
pass a shop towel halfway through the striker , and close the door so that it rests against the shop towel .
using a t40 bit , remove the bolt that attaches the lh front door check strap to the apillar body . 24 nm caution unbolting the door check allows the door to swing freely beyond opening limits .
apply urethane to the body following the original path .
turn the spindle on the cutting tool with the drill to start removing the backlight glass assembly . caution use the plastic guard to protect the headliner and package tray assembly during removal . note move the cutting tool as needed , keeping the line close to a 90 degree angle .
remove the hood striker from the old hood . see striker hood . note do not mark the location of the hood striker on the old hood .
with an assistant , remove the hood assembly from the vehicle and place it on a padded surface .
disconnect the antenna connector from the tuner .
use masking tape to tape the backlight glass antenna connectors to the backlight glass .
pull nylon cord from cup assembly around slither unit in the backlight glass . note turn the python cup assembly handle until the nylon cord is taught .
align the datum at the rear of the glass to the body .
apply one 5 mm diameter dollop to the center of the remaining hazing/swirling .
disconnect the lh and rh license plate light electrical connectors . figure 1 . lh shown , rh similar
remove the lh rear door outer belt seal . see seal outer belt rear door lh .
using a 10 mm deep socket , remove the nuts that attach the check strap to the door . 10 nm
position the lh rear quarter body glass over the vehicle and slide the rear quarter brightwork clip into the upper brightwork . note start from the rear locating post will help with the fitment of the rear quarter brightwork to the body . note align the quarter glass assembly with the previously created marks on the masking tape from the body .
attach suction cups to the lh and rh sides of the backlight glass .
remove the nuts that attach the lh and rh hood strut brackets to the old hood , and then remove the brackets .
with an assistant , install the hood assembly onto the vehicle and align the tape marks with the hood hinges .
release the antenna harness clip .
use the exterior switch to open the trunk .
position the nylon cord around backlight glass from the outside of the vehicle .
position the lh rear quarter body glass over the vehicle and slide the rear quarter brightwork clip into the upper brightwork . note make sure the locating posts are aligned with the holes on the body , and then install the rear quarter body glass onto the body by applying pressure from the rear locating post , and then work forward . note start from the rear locating post will help with the fitment of the rear quarter brightwork to the body .
using the gap measurements that were recorded during removal of the fixed roof glass , press the new fixed roof glass onto the body .
set the buffer speed according to region , and while the buffer is off , place the buffer on top of the hazing/swirling . na : setting 5 apac : tbd emea : tbd
disconnect the trunk latch electrical connector .
release the clips of the rear lh door electrical harness seal at the bpillar , and pull the wiring harness out of the bpillar bulkhead .
reach inside the door opening and remove the check strap from the vehicle .
secure the lh rear quarter body glass with tape while the urethane is curing .
with an assistant , remove the backlight glass from the vehicle .
remove the lh and rh bump stops from the old hood .
loosely install the nuts that attach the hood assembly to the lh and rh hood hinges , but do not tighten the nuts at this time .
remove the lh headlight . see headlight lh .
disconnect the antenna harness from the tuner and body harness .
insert the starter tool through the adhesive bead second time of the backlight glass .
verify that the clearances with the windshield , body sides , and backlight glass are within the gap measurements and adjust , if necessary .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the trunk harness ground straps to the trunk lid .
remove the lh rear door latch . see latch door rear lh .
pull the rear lh door wiring harness connector out of the bpillar , and then tuck the harness into the cavity at the front of the rear lh door .
make sure to adjust and calibrate the window .
fully seat the lh rear primary seal .
use a razor blade to carefully remove the old urethane from the body .
remove the hood plugs from the old hood .
disconnect the electrical connectors from the front side repeater light .
remove the rh side antenna harness from the backlight glass .
pull the nylon cord into the backlight glass inside of the vehicle .
remove the suction cups from the new fixed roof glass .
carefully open the rear lh door , and then close the front lh door . caution do not allow the leading edge of the rear lh door to crush the wiring harness or connector against the bpillar .
secure the clip at the cpillar .
use an ipa wipe to clean the urethane path .
install the hood plugs on the new hood .
install the clips that attach the lh and rh hood gas struts to the hood assembly .
remove the lh fascia side to fender bracket . see bracket fascia side to fender lh .
disconnect the rh harness electrical connector from the heater grid .
secure the wire to the starter tool and push the tool through the urethane at the lower side of the rh cpillar .
tie a stopper knot on the loose end of the nylon cord then insert into the notched slot on the python cup assembly .
apply tape to attach the fixed roof glass temporarily .
at a rate of 0.5 inches per second , move the buffer side to side in a 1 foot area centered on the hazing/swirling .
push the trunk harness through the trunk bulkhead and out of the trunk lid .
remove the button plugs from the bottom of the door .
disconnect the rear lh door electrical harness , and then rotate the connector exiting the bpillar 90 degrees , so as to prevent the connector from falling back into the bpillar .
attach suction cups to the lh and rh sides of the new backlight glass .
install the lh and rh bump stops on the new hood .
perform gap and flush adjustments on the hood assembly , if necessary .
release the two leftmost clips on the cowl screen panel from the lh front fender bracket .
remove the wire from the starter tool and remove the tool from the urethane .
turn the handle bar on the python cup assembly so that reeling the nylon cord to cut the urethane securing backlight glass to body . cut in a counterclockwise motion over the top of the backlight glass to the lower side of the lh cpillar . return to the starting point in a clockwise motion and continue past the bottom of the backlight glass to the lower side of the lh cpillar . caution use caution when working around the headliner area .
reposition the windshield and backlight glass seals , if necessary . note spray glass cleaner to lubricate the seals , if necessary .
turn the buffer off after 30 seconds or when the polishing compound begins to dissipate . remove the buffer from the body panel only when the pad stops spinning .
use a dry erase marker to mark the position of the trunk hinges on the trunk lid .
open the front lh door , and partially close the rear lh door .
remove the bolt that attaches the door check to the bpillar . caution unbolting the door check allows the door to swing freely beyond opening limits .
with an assistant , position the backlight glass onto the vehicle for a dry fit and note any locations where the net pads need to be adjusted .
position the lh and rh hood strut brackets on the new hood , and then tighten the nuts that attach the brackets to the hood . 15 nm
tighten the nuts that attach the hood assembly to the lh and rh hood hinges , and then remove the tape used to mark the hood hinge mounting locations . 15 nm
remove the bolts that attach the upper lh front fender to the vehicle .
secure each end of the wire with a thandle .
remove the masking tape after the urethane has cured . caution do not drive the vehicle until the adhesive manufacturer ’ s recommended minimum driveaway time has passed . dow betaseal express has a driveaway time of 1 hour minimum in temperatures of 0˚f or warmer . if necessary , leave the tape applying pressure to the glass on the vehicle and advise the customer that they can remove it after 24 hours . additionally , advise the customer that they should avoid high driving speeds and speed bumps for the next 24 hours .
remove the polishing compound from the body panel with a clean microfiber towel , and then inspect the affected area . if hazing/swirling are still present , perform steps 7 to 13 . if hazing/swirling are no longer present , continue to the next step .
remove the bolts that attach the hinges to the trunk lid . figure 2 . rh shown , lh similar
use a dryerase marker or tape to mark the mounting locations of the door hinges on the door .
if necessary , perform net pad adjustment . cut teflon tape into rectangles having dimensions 5mm x 20mm . with an assistant , remove the backlight glass and set it on a stand . apply the teflon tape rectangles to the net pads where adjustment is needed . note make sure that the edges of the tape rectangles align with the edges of the net pads . with an assistant , position the backlight glass onto the vehicle and check the net pads fitment . repeat step 3.a through step 3.d to adjust the net pads .
position the hood striker on the new hood , and then hand tighten the bolts that attach the striker to the hood .
remove the bolt that attaches the lower lh front fender to the vehicle .
with an assistant , remove the lid from the vehicle , and then place it on a padded surface .
loosen the upper bolt of each hinge that attaches the rear lh door to the hinge by approximately 5 mm .
with an assistant , remove the backlight glass and set it on a stand .
with assistance , position the hood on the vehicle , and then hand tighten the nuts that attach the lh and rh hood hinges to the hood . figure 3 . rh shown , lh similar
remove the bolt that attaches the rear lh front fender to the vehicle .
with an assistant , position and align the trunk lid to the trunk hinges , and then handtighten the bolts that attach the hinges to the trunk lid .
with assistance , remove the lower bolt of each hinge , and then unhook and lift the door away from the vehicle .
install the lh and rh license plate lights . see light license plate .
support the hood with a hood prop .
remove the bolt and nut that attach the lower lh front fender to the vehicle .
push the trunk harness through the trunk bulkhead .
make sure that the upper bolt for each door hinge is installed , and the bolt head extends approximately 10 mm from flush .
position the lh and rh hood gas struts on the lh and rh hood hinges , and then install the clips that attach the struts to the hinges .
inspect the area between the upper lh front fender and the vehicle body for foam sealant . if present , carefully cut the sealant with a blade , and then separate the upper fender from the body with a plastic trim tool .
install the clips that attach the trunk harness to the trunk lid .
release all door electrical harness clips .
with assistance , lower the rear lh door onto the door hinges , and engage the upper bolts into the hinges .
torque the hinge bolts to specification . 24 nm
carefully close the hood , and then check hood fitment .
remove the lh front fender from the vehicle .
install new bolts to attach the trunk harness ground straps to the trunk lid . 8 nm
push the electrical harness out through the door bulkhead , and remove the electrical harness from the door .
install the lower bolt of each hinge into the door and handtighten all bolts .
connect the trunk latch electrical connector .
position the door so that the hinges line up with the dryerase marker lines or the marking tape .
remove the lift adapters from the body , and then install the body plugs .
install the clips and hookandloop strips that attach the rear carpet to the vehicle . note the number of clips on newer vehicles might vary .
install the lh lower bpillar trim . see trim bpillar lower lh .
install the trunk latch to the trunk lid , and then install the bolts that attach the latch to the trunk lid . note hand tighten , but do not torque the bolts at this time .
remove the front end carrier . see carrier front end .
connect the electrical connector to the trunk latch .
repeat step 133 through step 136 for the rh side of the vehicle .
if the hv battery dc input is configured with busbars , continue to the next step , otherwise skip to step 136 .
connect the window switch tool to the door harness and fully raise the front lh door window .
remove the bolts that attach the lh crash can bracket to the front subframe , and remove the bracket from the subframe . 53 nm
with an assistant , install the new windshield assembly onto the vehicle , but do not set it yet .
with an assistant , use the thandles to cut the urethane that attaches the windshield to the body . caution use care when cutting the urethane at the upper corners and around the vin plate .
remove the alligator clip adapter from the end of the wrist strap to expose the banana plug
repeat step 119 for the other charge port busbar connector lead and dc input hv header bolt head .
remove the front door speaker . see speaker front door lh .
check the gap and flush of the windshield assembly to the body before fully seating the windshield assembly .
cut the square wire with diagonal cutters , and then remove the thandles from the vehicle .
connect the banana plug on the wrist strap to the ground cord
install the 2nd row floor mat inside the vehicle .
remove the bolt that attaches the lh front door check strap to the apillar . 24 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 13 mm socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench caution unbolting the door check allows the door to swing freely beyond opening limits .
remove the lh front door outer belt seal . see seal outer belt front door lh .
install the lh and rh rear fog/reverse lights . see light fog / reverse rear lh .
fully seat the windshield assembly , check the gap and flush , and adjust if necessary .
attach suction cups to the outer lh and rh sides of the windshield .
connect the ground cord to a ground source note per tn1492003r1 , service centers with nema 515 outlets a. plug the ground indicator into the outlet and confirm the 2 lights on the right are lit . b . remove the alligator clip adapter from the end of the ground cord to expose the banana plug . c. plug the banana plug on the ground cord into the ground indicator • service centers with grounded , nonnema 515 outlets a. plug the appropriate adapter into the outlet . note : service centers with grounded , nonnema 515 outlets need to supply an adapter suitable to connect the ground indicator to their regional outlet type . if you are unable to obtain an adapter , contact servicetooling @ teslamotors.com for assistance . b. plug the ground indicator into the adapter and confirm the 2 lights on the right are lit . c. remove the alligator clip adapter from the end of the ground cord to expose the banana plug . d. plug the banana plug on the ground cord into the ground indicator . • service centers with nongrounded outlets a . clip the alligator clip adapter on the ground cord onto any unpainted metal part of the vehicle .
use a plastic trim tool to release the clips that attach the check strap seal to the door .
remove the lh front window motor/regulator assembly . see window motor / regulator assembly front lh .
carefully close the trunk and check the trunk to body gap and fitment . location gap flush trunk lid lower edge to rear lower fascia 4.5 mm +2.5/2.0 mm 3.0 mm +4.5/3.5 mm trunk lid side edge to rear side fascia n/a 3.0 mm +1.5/3.0 mm fog/reverse light to tailight 3.5 mm +3.0/2.5 mm 1.0 mm +1.7/2.5 mm
apply masking tape to attach the windshield assembly to the body while the urethane cures .
partially close the hood for added clearance between the windshield and the body .
put on esd wrist strap
skip to step 129 .
remove the nuts that attach the check strap to the door . 10 nm 10 mm socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench
remove the lh door exterior release handle . see handle exterior release door front lh .
remove the front fascia assembly . see fascia front .
open the trunk , loosen the hinge bolts , adjust the trunk lid position , and tighten the bolts .
remove the suction cups from the windshield .
with an assistant , remove the windshield from the vehicle and put the windshield on support stand . note use care not to damage the windshield harness when removing the windshield from the vehicle .
remove graphene foam block from temperature and humidity sensor note apply heat to area around adhesive and gently lift up with tweezers
install the front passenger footwell cover . see cover footwell passenger .
r each inside the speaker bracket opening and r emove the check strap from the vehicle .
remove the lh front door latch . see latch door front lh .
disconnect the lh front door electrical connectors from the lh body controller module .
remove the front bumper . see bumper beam front .
repeat step 12 and step 13 until the gap and flush is minimal and uniform .
install the gps antenna into the windshield bracket , and then install the screw that attaches the antenna to the bracket . 1 nm
clean area where temperature and humidity sensor foam block will rest note allow 1 minute dry time
maneuver the check strap seal onto the check strap prior to torquing the fasteners .
release the electrical harness clip from the lh body controller module .
disconnect the electrical harness from the lh front end carrier electrical connector .
install the windshield electrical harness to the windshield bracket , and then install the screw that attaches the harness to the bracket . 1 nm
remove the tape from the windshield wiring harness .
using tweezers , carefully install the graphene block onto the temperature and humidity sensor . note make sure the graphene block is installed completely inside of the gold square and that the hole closest to the chip remains uncovered .
release the grommet , and then push the lh door electrical harness through the apillar bulkhead .
disconnect the electrical harness from the rh front end carrier electrical connector .
torque the trunk latch bolts to specification . 8 nm
secure suction cups to backlight glass at each side .
with an assistant , use the thandles to cut the urethane that attaches the backlight glass to the body . cut in a counterclockwise motion over the top of the backlight glass to the lower side of the lh cpillar . return to the starting point in a clockwise motion and continue past the bottom of the backlight glass to the lower side of the lh cpillar . caution use caution when working around the headliner area .
connect the windshield electrical harness to the gps antenna connector .
use a blade scraper to remove the old urethane and seals from the windshield flange on the vehicle .
remove the esd wrist strap
apply detail spray to a clean microfiber towel , and then remove any residual polish from the body panel .
repeat step 131 for the other charge port busbar connector lead and dc input hv header bolt head .
remove the bolt that attaches the lh front door check strap to the apillar . 24 nm caution unbolting the door check allows the door to swing freely beyond opening limits .
release the clip that attaches the front radar sensor electrical harness to the front end carrier .
cut the square wire and remove the thandles .
connect the windshield electrical harness to the humidity and temperature sensor connector .
use a blade scraper to remove the net pads .
using an inspection light and another clean microfiber towel , perform a final inspection and cleaning of the affected area . check all adjacent body panels and gaps .
d isconnect the door wiring harness connectors at the lh body controller module .
use tape to mark the mounting locations of the door hinges on the lh front door .
remove the front radar sensor . see sensor radar front .
use ipa wipes to thoroughly clean these locations on the trunk lid : hinge bolts , washers and surrounding area area between the trunk lid lower lip and trunk latch trunk lid badge area above license plate location
install the forward facing triple camera . see camera triple forward facing .
use a blade scraper to remove the datums , if equipped .
install temperature and humidity sensor onto windshield bracket note ensure blue tape is removed from foam block before installation , ensure windshield is completely dry before attempting to install , the foam block will not stick if windshield is wet , slide end of board into retaining plastic and align the hole on board with plastic alignment pin
if the charge port to hv battery harness has a 3phase connector , continue to the next step , otherwise skip to step 135 .
install the lh front floor mat .
release the wiring harness clip from the lh body controller module .
loosen the hinge bolts , and then remove the lower bolts for each hinge . 24 nm
remove the homelink transmitter module . see module homelink transmitter .
apply urethane primer to the vehicle and backlight glass along the urethane path and in areas that were damaged during removal of the backlight glass . note allow the primer to dry for at least 2 minutes before continuing .
vigorously shake the vehicle color touchup paint applicator for several minutes .
use a blade scraper to clean the double sided tape residue . note use an eraser wheel and a battery powered drill if necessary .
secure temperature and humidity sensor to windshield bracket caution ensure the fasteners are not over torqued as they are very delicate and will strip out very easily note 2x screws , ph00 philips , 0.12 nm
skip to step 141 .
p ush the door wiring harness through the apillar bulkhead .
partially unthread the upper bolt for each hinge , and with assistance , lift the lh front door away from the vehicle .
remove the front bluetooth passive entry antenna . see antenna bluetooth passive entry front .
apply urethane to the body following the original path . note make sure that the urethane bead has a triangular crosssection of approximate width 8 mm and height 13 mm .
apply a coat of touchup paint to the discolored areas of the hinge bolts and washers , and allow at least 20 minutes to dry . note perform the remainder of this procedure while the touchup paint dries .
use a scraper to carefully remove the old urethane from the body .
position the windshield harness to the fastener track , and then secure the clips that attach the harness to the fastener track .
clean all mating surfaces with isopropyl alcohol .
release all door harness clips .
remove the bolts that attach the radar bracket to the front end carrier , and remove the bracket from the vehicle .
install the power trunk lid trim . see trim lid power trunk .
with an assistant , install the backlight glass to the vehicle .
use a flat scraper blade and isopropyl alcohol to remove the foam sealant from the lh outer shotgun panel . any remaining sealant should be flush with the shotgun panel .
affix a new emissions sticker to the trunk lid , in the gap between the trunk lid lower lip and the trunk latch .
use an ipa wipe to clean the urethane path on the vehicle . allow 1 minute for the ipa to dry .
secure the clips that attach the front of the headliner to the body . note reseat the primary seal near the apillar and bpillar to the headliner .
measure the resistance of the heater grid to check continuity . note measured at ambient temperature ; 5.6ω+/10 % . check from pin 1 to pin 2 on x304 .
push the wiring harness through the door bulkhead , and then remove the harness from the door .
remove the high tone horn . see horn high tone .
check the gap and flush of the backlight glass to the body before fully seating the backlight glass .
tighten the nuts that attach the hood assembly to the lh and rh hood hinges . 15 nm
apply primer to the lh outer shotgun panel , completely covering the previous foam application area .
install the rear tesla badge . see tesla badge rear .
use a scraper to carefully remove the old seal from the backlight glass .
install the rh upper apillar trim . see trim apillar upper lh .
insert the windshield cowl retainer . note follow the windshield alignment marks at the lower corners of the glass .
connect the lh and rh license plate light electrical connectors . figure 3 . lh shown , rh similar
remove the nuts that attach the door check inside the door , and remove the door check from the door . 24 nm
tighten the hinge bolts . 24 nm
remove the bolt that attaches the door check to the apillar . 24 nm caution unbolting the door check allows the door to swing freely beyond opening limits .
remove the low tone horn . see horn low tone .
tighten the bolts that attach the hood striker to the hood assembly . 18 nm
release the clip that attaches the lh cowl screen carrier bracket to the old lh front fender , and then remove the bracket from the fender .
install the rear license plate . 1.5 nm
use a scraper to remove the old urethane from the backlight glass .
install the windshield edge seal . note follow the windshield alignment marks at the upper corners of the glass . start from one corner and peel the tape as while applying inch by inch to ensure proper fitment .
connect the trunk exterior release switch electrical connector .
install the bolt that attaches the door check to the bpillar . 24 nm
release the clips that attach the door check seal to the door , and then remove the seal .
disconnect the electrical connector from the ags actuator .
fully seat the backlight glass , check the gap and flush , and adjust as necessary .
clean the lh and rh hood hinge bolts and the surrounding area with isopropyl alcohol , and then let dry for at least 1 minute .
remove the headlight grommet from the old lh front fender .
use an ipa wipe to clean the surface of the backlight glass . allow 1 minute for the ipa to dry .
install the passenger sun visor check base . see check base sun visor driver .
install the ohc fastener track . note the windshield is marked with alignment guides .
repeat step 144 through step 147 for the rh side of the vehicle .
connect the rear facing camera electrical connector .
connect the rear lh door wiring harness and press the harness against the inside of the rear lh door .
remove the nuts that attach the door check inside the door , and then remove the door check from the door . 10 nm
remove the ankle catcher . see ankle catcher .
remove the suction cups from the backlight glass .
if necessary , apply touch up paint matching the vehicle 's body color to the lh and rh hood hinge studs/nuts .
remove the underhood storage unit clips from the old lh front fender .
peel the adhesive backing off the new seal at the corner and slowly apply the adhesive backing to the adhesive path on the backlight glass . note firmly press the seal onto the glass during installation . ensure the adhesive is installed as close to the edge of the glass as possible .
install the passenger sun visor . see sun visor driver .
install the net pads . note there will be alignment marks on the glass for the installation of the net pads .
if the charge port to hv battery harness has a 3phase connector , continue to the next step , otherwise skip to step 147 .
connect the lh and rh rear fog/reverse light electrical connectors .
install a new secondary door seal on the replacement door . see seal secondary rear door lh .
open the front lh door and close the rear lh door .
loosen the hinge bolts , and then remove the lower bolts for each hinge . 24 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm ratcheting combination flex head wrench
remove the front end carrier from the vehicle and place it on a padded surface .
connect the rh harness connector to the heater grid .
clean the front of the hood with ipa , and then install a front tesla badge . see tesla badge front .
install the underhood storage unit clips on the new lh front fender . note replace any broken or damaged clips .
peel the adhesive backing off at the end of the new trunk flip seal , and then slowly apply the seal to the old adhesive path on the backlight glass . note start by installing the trunk flip seal where the backlight glass seal ends . firmly press the seal onto the glass during installation . ensure the adhesive is installed as close to the edge of the glass as possible . note there will be overlap at the end of the seal . cutting the seal is in the next step .
apply urethane primer : apply urethhane primer to the vehicle along the urethane path and in areas that were damaged during removal of the backlight glass . apply urethane primer to the backlight glass along the urethane path . note allow the primer to dry for at least 2 minutes before continuing .
install the driver sun visor check base . see check base sun visor driver .
install the windshield electrical harness to the windshield bracket , and then install the screw that attaches the harness to the bracket . 1 nm note make sure the windshield electrical harness is routed inside of the bracket .
close the hood and all four doors .
with an assistant , perform the gap and flush measurement of the trunk assembly .
move the rear lh door electrical harness connector into the hole in the bpillar , press the rear lh door wiring harness seal into the bpillar , and fasten the clips that attach the seal to the bpillar bulkhead . note make sure that the rear lh door wiring harness seal fits tightly against the bpillar bulkhead .
partially unthread the upper bolt for each hinge , and with assistance , lift the door away from the vehicle .
remove the primary hood latch actuator . see actuator latch hood primary .
secure the clip that attaches the lh heater grid harness to the vehicle .
install the headlight grommet on the new lh front fender .
cut the trunk flip seal overlap .
connect the electrical connector to the gps antenna .
install the lh and rh lower rocker panel covers . see cover rocker panel lower lh .
tighten the bolts that attach the hinges to the trunk lid . 24 nm figure 4 . rh shown , lh similar
raise the rear lh window , remove the shop towel from the rear lh door striker , and close both lh doors .
install a new lh front door secondary seal on the new door . see seal secondary front door lh .
remove the secondary hood latch actuator . see actuator latch hood secondary .
connect the backlight electrical harness to the tuner connector on the rh cpillar .
position the lh cowl screen carrier bracket on the new lh front fender , and then install the clip that attaches the bracket to the fender .
install the new net pads onto the backlight glass . note figure 2 . side net pads figure 3 . upper net pads figure 4 . rear net pads
connect the windshield electrical connector to the humidity and temperature sensor .
tighten the bolts that attach the trunk latch to the trunk lid . 8 nm
partially thread the upper bolt/nut for each hinge in the door so that the door can set on the hinges to install the lower bolt/nut .
remove the hood latch . see latch hood .
load urethane into a caulking gun , and then cut an opening that is 3.5 mm wide and 1.5 mm tall .
verify the suction handles are secured to the backlight glass .
connect the electrical harness to the windshield heater connector .
adjust the gap and flush of the door .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the front end carrier , and then remove the electrical harness from the front end carrier .
fold the rh 2nd row seat back to the up position .
apply a dollop of urethane on top of the primed surface of the lh outer shotgun panel .
install the screws that attach the trilobe assembly to the windshield bracket . 1 nm
clean the marks of the dry erase marker from the hinges .
install the clips that attach the front end module electrical harness to the front end carrier .
connect the lh harness connector to the heater grid .
position the new lh front fender on the vehicle .
perform the forward facing camera pitch verification . see camera forward facing .
install the triple cam hood , and then install new screws that attach the cam hood to the assembly . 1 nm
install the door check into the door , and then install the nuts that attach the door check inside the door . 24 nm
install the hood latch . see latch hood .
install the bolt and nut that attach the lower lh front fender to the vehicle . 9.8 nm 9.8 nm
apply masking tape to attach the backlight glass to the body while the urethane cures . note for urethane curing time , follow urethane manufacturer 's recommendations .
if a new temperature and humidity sensor was installed : reinstall the latest vehicle firmware , or update the firmware if not the latest . see software reinstall or firmware update .
install the fastener track on the windshield , and then connect the clips that attach the windshield electrical harness on the fastener track .
open all the doors .
remove the rear bumper beam . see bumper beam rear .
turn steering wheel fully to the right .
install the secondary hood latch actuator . see actuator latch hood secondary .
connect the backlight electrical connector from the fm antenna amplifier .
install the bolt that attaches the rear lh front fender to the vehicle . 9.8 nm
apply urethane primer : apply urethane primer to the vehicle along the urethane path and in areas that were damaged during removal of the backlight glass . apply urethane primer to the backlight glass along the urethane path . note allow the primer to dry for at least 2 minutes before continuing .
temporarily secure the windshield electrical harness end towards the center of the windshield using tape .
remove the compressor and the compressor assembly from the shock tower brace , and support the compressore assembly on the frunk reinforcement beam . see bracket compressor . note no need to remove the bracket from the compressor .
lower all the windows .
release the clips that attach the valance to the stabilizer bar brackets .
push the electrical harness in through the door bulkhead , and install the electrical harness to the door .
remove push clips that attach lh front wheel arch liner to vehicle .
release the clip and remove the ambient air temperature sensor from the grille .
remove the front bumper beam foam from the front bumper beam . note if the vehicle is equipped with pedestrian protection systems , disconnect and remove the pressure tube sensors from the front bumper beam foam .
with an assistant , position the front end carrier onto the vehicle for installation . note handtighten the upper bolts of the front end carrier to avoid it from falling when installing the ankle catcher .
install the bolt that attaches the lower lh front fender to the vehicle . 9.8 nm
install the read end of the headliner to the body .
support the supermanifold with bungee cord . note install bungee cord to rh hood strut bracket . route bungee cord around accumulator housing and secure to the rh body side . do not secure bungee cord around coolant pumps or plastic housing on supermanifold . use a mirror as needed to visual check bungee cord around accumulator housing .
remove the front license plate bracket . see bracket license plate front .
place two thumbs at the 1 and 2 o'clock positions , resting your knuckles on the bumper fascia surface to support your hand position . use both thumbs to apply force on the outer edge of the cover .
remove the push clips that attach the lh and rh sides of the valance to the wheel liners . note remove the outer clips as necessary to allow for easier access to the nuts behind the wheel liner .
fasten all door electrical harness clips .
pull front portion of lh wheelhouse liner away from front fascia .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the grille .
if the vehicle is equipped with pedestrian protection systems , install the pressure tube sensor on the new front bumper beam foam .
install the ankle catcher . see ankle catcher .
fold the lh 2nd row seat back to the up position .
install the bolts that attach the upper lh front fender to the vehicle . 9.8 nm
connect the backlight electrical harness connector to the tuner on the rh cpillar .
attach suction cups to the lh and rh sides of the windshield on the outside side of the windshield .
remove the bolts securing the supermanifold to the shock tower brace . note 2x bolts , 15 mm , 31 nm , recommend assistance , rotate the supermanifold counter clockwise under the shock tower support beam
remove the rear parking distance sensors . see sensor parking distance inner rear .
remove the bolts that attach the lower rear fascia to the upper rear fascia . 3 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 4 in extension
insert location tab between the 1 and 2 o'clock position and rotate the bottom snap fit tabs into the slots in the fascia . once the tabs are located , push on the outer edge to snap the cover on .
remove the nuts at the lh and rh corners of the valance . note the nuts are accessed from behind the front of the wheel liners .
install the trailer hitch onto the vehicle and secure the lh and rh fasteners .
remove the lh front wheel housing liner reinforcement from the front fascia .
remove the screws that attach the grille to the front fascia . 1.8 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : torx t25 socket 4 in extension
install the front bumper beam foam onto the front bumper beam .
connect the ags actuator electrical connector .
install the cowl screen panel clips on the lh front fender bracket .
attach the rh side backlight busbar harness to the body .
with an assistant , position the windshield on the vehicle for a dry fit .
remove the lh and rh bolts that attach the shock tower brace to the body . 55 nm 55 nm
release the tabs that attach the lh and rh rear reflectors to the rear fascia , and then remove the reflectors from the fascia .
release the clips that attach the lower fascia to the upper fascia , and separate the fascias .
disconnect the electrical harness from the rh front turn signal/fog light connector .
remove the bolt that attaches the lh side of the rear fascia to the outer lh rear quarter panel . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm hex
disconnect the electrical harness from the lh and rh ped pro pressure tube sensor connectors . note pull the red tab , and then pull the red tab again to disconnect the connector .
remove the push clips that attach the valance to the front fascia , and then remove the valance from the vehicle . note remove clips from the center first and work outward .
install the rear center bracket assembly , connect the rear ble and fasten the rear center bracket harness clips .
install the lh front wheel housing liner reinforcement from the front fascia .
release the clips that attach the grille to the front fascia , and then remove the grille from the fascia . figure 1 . top figure 2 . bottom
install the high tone horn . see horn high tone .
install the lh fascia side to fender bracket . see bracket fascia side to fender lh .
remove the masking tape from the exterior cpillars .
connect the 12v noise filter antenna connector on the rh side of the vehicle .
visually inspect the lip and edge seal . note the seal should be sitting against the vehicle body and look even all the way through .
only if the hv battery is the older type having an original harness type dc input , should you install and tighten the 3rd lh inner hv battery bolt . 66 nm caution do not install a bolt if the hv battery has a retrofitted harness type dc input or a busbar type dc input .
remove the lh and rh outer bolts that attach the shock tower brace to the body , and then remove the shock tower brace from the vehicle . 62 nm
remove the bolts that attach the rear diffuser to the inner rear fascia . 3 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 6 in extension figure 1 . inside figure 2 . outside
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the front turn signal/fog light .
release the clips and remove the push nut that attach the rear portion of the lh rear wheel arch liner to the body .
remove the lh and rh front bumper impact accelerometer sensors . see sensor pressure door front lh .
install the valance to the front fascia , and install the push clips that attach the valance to the fascia . note fasten the clips at the far left and far right first and work inward .
install the trailer hitch ecu .
move lh wheelhouse liner back into installed position .
install the low tone horn . see horn low tone .
install a new lh front side repeater light . see light side repeater front lh .
attach the lh side backlight busbar harness to the body .
note any locations where the pads need to be adjusted . note add or remove to adjust the flush condition of the windshield , if needed .
remove the shock tower brace .
starting from either side , release the clips that attach the diffuser to the rear fascia , and then remove the diffuser from the rear fascia .
remove the screws that attach the front turn signal/fog light to the front fascia .
remove the bolt that attaches the lh side of the rear fascia to the inner lh rear quarter panel . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t25 socket 2 in extension
remove the center front bumper impact accelerometer sensor . see sensor impact accelerometer front bumper center .
install the nuts at the lh and rh corners of the valance . 3 nm note the nuts are accessed from behind the front of the wheel liners .
open the rear lh door , and then close the front lh door .
connect trailer hitch ecu to vehicle .
install the push clips that attach lh front wheel arch liner to vehicle .
install the bolts that attach the radar bracket to the front end carrier . 8 nm
install the lh headlight . see headlight lh .
connect the ground noise filter antenna connector on the lh side of the vehicle .
with an assistant , remove the windshield and set it back on the stand .
install the shock tower brace .
remove the bolts that attach the lower rear fascia to the upper rear fascia . 3 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket
use a trim tool to release the tabs that attach the front turn signal/fog light to the front fascia , and then remove the light from the front fascia .
repeat step 2 through step 5 on the rh side of the vehicle .
remove the bolts that attach the top of the front fascia to the vehicle . 4 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket ¼ in std ratchet 2 in extension wurth ¼ in hexagon 1 nm 5 nm torque wrench ¼ in hex to ¼ in square 2 in adapter
remove the front bumper beam foam from the front bumper beam .
install the push clips that attach the lh and rh sides of the valance to the wheel liners . note install the outer clips if removed earlier .
install the button plugs to the bottom of the door .
feed trailer jumper harness through bracket and connect to trailer hitch ecu .
turn steering wheel fully to center .
install the front bluetooth passive entry antenna . see antenna bluetooth passive entry front .
use an ipa wipe to clean any debris or visible urethane from the backlight glass and body .
connect the backlight harness connector to the antenna amplifier .
install the lh and rh outer bolts that attach the shock tower brace to the body , and then remove the shock tower brace from the vehicle . 62 nm
starting from either side , release the clips that attach the upper rear fascia to the lower rear fascia , and then separate the upper rear fascia from the lower rear fascia .
repeat step 3 through step 5 for the lh front turn signal/fog light .
remove the bolts that attach the rear portion of the mid aero shield panel to the rear subframe . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm hex 2 in extension
remove the clips that attach the front of the lh wheel arch liner to the front fascia , and then pull the liner back to access the fascia to fender bolts . note turn the steering wheel to the right for additional clearance . tip : although not necessary to perform this procedure , consider placing the vehicle on a 2post lift to gain better access to the fasteners in the following steps .
disconnect the electrical harness from the lh front airbag sensor connector .
remove the bolts that attach the front bumper beam to the lh and rh crush cans .
support the a/c compressor from below .
fasten the clips that attach the valance to the stabilizer bar brackets .
secure trailer jumper harness clip to trailer hitch .
install the homelink transmitter module . see module homelink transmitter .
apply urethane primer to the vehicle body along the urethane path and in areas that were damaged during removal of the windshield . caution be careful not to damage the headliner during application . note allow the primer to dry for at least 1 minute .
install the lh and rh bolts that attach the shock tower brace to the body . 55 nm 55 nm
disconnect the electrical harness from all of the front parking distance sensors connectors . figure 1 . lh front parking assist sensor shown
remove the bolts that attach the rear diffuser to the body . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm hex 2 in extension
loosen the forward bolts that attach the lh side of the front fascia to the fender . 4 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench 6 in extension wurth ¼ in hexagon 1 nm 5 nm torque wrench ¼ in hex to ¼ in square 2 in adapter
disconnect the electrical harness from the center front airbag sensor connector .
use a pry bar to separate the front bumper beam from the lh and rh crush cans , and then remove the bumper beam from the vehicle . note lightly tap the bumper beam with a dead blow hammer to assist with removal , as needed .
disconnect the electrical connectors from the low pressure transducer and the exv .
install the lh rear door latch . see latch door rear lh .
secure trailer jumper harness to trailer hitch .
install the front radar sensor . see sensor radar front .
install the screws that attach the lh and rh rear coat hooks to the body . 2.5 nm
prepare the caulking gun and urethane . note make sure that the urethane bead has a triangular crosssection of approximate 8 mm width and 13 mm height .
install the bolts securing the supermanifold to the shock tower brace .
release the clips that attach the parking distance sensors to the front fascia , and then remove the sensors from the fascia . figure 2 . lh front parking assist sensor shown
disconnect the rear fascia electrical harness .
remove the outermost bolt that attaches the lh corner of the front fascia to the fender . 3 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm deep socket flex head ratchet/flex head torque wrench 6 in extension wurth ¼ in hexagon 1 nm 5 nm torque wrench ¼ in hex to ¼ in square 2 in adapter
disconnect the electrical harness from the rh front airbag sensor connector .
install the front bumper beam into the lh and rh crush cans . note lightly tap the bumper beam with a dead blow hammer to assist with removal , as needed .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the shock tower brace .
install the lh rear window regulator . see window motor / regulator assembly rear lh .
install the rear bumper beam . see bumper beam rear .
fasten the clips that attach the screw covers to the lh and rh rear coat hooks .
apply urethane to the windshield following the primer path .
install the compressor and the compressor assembly from the shock tower brace . see bracket compressor .
with the help of an assistant , remove the rear fascia from the vehicle . caution carefully remove the rear fascia from the body so that the corner fastener clips do not damage the rear quarter panels .
repeat steps 7 to 9 on the rh side of the vehicle .
remove the bolts that attach the front bumper with the energy absorbers to the lh and rh crush cans .
install the bolts that attach the front bumper beam to the lh and rh crush cans .
remove the bolt that attaches the liquid line bracket to the shock tower brace . 5.5 nm i
install the lh rear door outer belt seal . see seal outer belt rear door lh .
apply urethane primer to the vehicle along the urethane path and in areas that were damaged during removal of the backlight glass . note allow the primer to dry for at least 2 minutes before continuing .
install the screws that attach the lh coat hook to the body . 2.5 nm
with an assistant , install the windshield on the vehicle . caution be careful not to damage the headliner during installation . note make sure to align the locating pins at the top of the windshield .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the front fascia , and then remove the electrical harness from the fascia .
with the help of an assistant , install the rear fascia onto the vehicle . caution carefully install the rear fascia to the body so that the corner fastener clips do not damage the rear quarter panels .
disconnect the electrical connector from the front fascia in the rh wheel well . tip : slide the locking tab away from the connector , and then press down on the tab to release the connector .
carefully remove the front bumper with the energy absorbers from the vehicle . caution do not damage the body when prying the front bumper . note lightly tap the front bumper with a dead blow harmer to assist with removal of the front bumper .
install the front bumper beam foam from the front bumper beam .
remove the bolts that attach the a/c compressor to the compressor bracket . 10 nm
apply urethane primer to the backlight glass along the urethane path . note allow the primer to dry for at least 2 minutes before continuing .
fasten the clips that attach the screw cover to the lh rear coat hook , and then push the coat hook to close .
select the 'actions/autodiag ' tab and search for 'vcright ' .
check the gap and flush of the windshield to the body before fully seating the windshield using a gap/flush measuring tool .
release the clips that attach the tow hook cover to the front fascia , and then remove the cover from the fascia .
connect the rear fascia electrical harness .
remove the bolts that attach the front aero shield to the front valance . 5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 4 in extension ratchet/torque wrench
remove the bolts that attach the bottom of the cooling fan module to the ankle catcher , and then set the cooling fan module onto the front subframe . note lift the condenser fan module up to ease removal of the bolts .
install the center front bumper impact accelerometer sensor . see sensor impact accelerometer front bumper center .
remove the bolt that attaches the superbottle to the brace . 8 nm
remove the shop towel from the striker .
install the clips that attach the lh upper bpillar trim to the bpillar .
select testreset_vcright , click run and allow the routine to complete .
fully seat the windshield ; check the gap and flush and make adjustments , if necessary .
only if the hv battery is the older type having an original harness type dc input , should you install and tighten the 3rd rh inner hv battery bolt . 66 nm caution do not install a bolt if the hv battery has a retrofitted harness type dc input or a busbar type dc input .
remove the screws that attach the front fascia grille to the front fascia .
install the bolts that attach the rear diffuser to the body . 4 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm hex 2 in extension
remove the clips that attach the lower valance to the front stabilizer bar brackets .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the lh front crush can .
install the lh and rh front bumper impact accelerometer sensors . see sensor pressure door front lh .
adjust the gap and flush at the latch and striker .
prepare the caulking gun and urethane . note the opening must be 8mm wide and 13mm tall .
repeat step 20 through step 22 for the rh side of the vehicle .
apply masking tape to secure the windshield to the body while the urethane cures .
release the clips that attach the front fascia grille to the front fascia , and then remove grille from the fascia . figure 3 . top figure 4 . bottom
install the bolts that attach the rear portion of the mid aero shield panel to the rear subframe . 5 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm hex 2 in extension
if present , release the clip that attaches the electrical harness to the pedestrian warning speaker assembly .
remove the bolts that attach the lh front crush can to the lh front inner rail .
connect the electrical harness from the lh and rh ped pro pressure tube sensor connectors . note push the red tab in to secure the connector .
use toolbox to calibrate the rh rear window . see window regulator rear lh .
remove the rear center bracket . see bracket rear center .
install the front fascia grille onto the front fascia , and then fasten the clips that attach the grille to the fascia . figure 5 . top figure 6 . bottom
install the bolt that attaches the lh side of the rear fascia to the inner lh rear quarter panel . 2 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : torx t25 socket 2 in extension
remove the lh and rh front wheel s . see wheel .
if present , slide the locking tab away from the connector , and then press down on the locking tab to disconnect the connector from the pedestrian warning speaker assembly .
remove the bolt that attaches the lh front fender support to the lh front crush can .
remove the large towel from the instrument panel .
remove the nuts that attach the rear bumper beam to the body , and then remove the rear bumper beam from the vehicle . tip : recommend assistance when performing this step . note use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm deep socket 6 in extension
install the screws that attach the front fascia grille to the front fascia . 1.8 nm
remove the lh taillight bracket . see bracket taillight lh .
open the trunk and remove the lh liftgate stop .
fasten the clips and install the push nut that attach the rear portion of the lh rear wheel arch liner to the body .
release the clips that attach the front portion of the lh wheel arch liner to the vehicle , and then move the liner aside to perform the following steps . figure 1 . lh shown , rh similar ; one clip is behind the knuckle
remove the bolt that attaches the lh fascia center to fender bracket to the fender , and then remove the bracket from the vehicle . 3 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : torx t20 socket 4 in extension ratchet/torque wrench wurth ¼ in hexagon 1 nm 5 nm torque wrench
remove the bolts that attach the bottom of the cooling fan module to the ankle catcher . note lift the condenser fan module up to ease removal of the bolts .
with an assistant , release both corners of the front fascia , and then carefully pull the fascia forward to remove it from the vehicle . place the fascia on a padded surface . caution carefully release the tabs that attach the lower headlight bracket to the front fascia , otherwise the tabs can be broken . tip : perform this step with the help of another technician . warning the corners of the ankle catcher are very sharp and might cause personal injury . lh ankle catcher corner shown ; rh corner similar
remove the lh front crush can from the lh front inner rail .
remove the masking tape holding the windshield electrical harness to the windshield .
position the rear bumper beam on the body , and then install the nuts that attach the rear bumper beam to the body . 60 nm tip : recommend assistance when performing this step . note use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm deep socket 6 in extension
ensure the vehicle is parked on a level surface .
disconnect the charging cable from the vehicle . warning do not attach the charging cable to the charge port while the vehicle is on the lift .
disconnect the charging cable from the vehicle . warning do not attach the charging cable to the charge port while the vehicle is on the lift . caution perform a visual check of the lift according to the equipment operator 's manual before using the lift .
install the tow hook cover to the front fascia , and then fasten the clips that attach the cover to the fascia .
remove the bolts that attach the lh rear wing bracket to the vehicle . 3.5 nm
install the bolt that attaches the lh side of the rear fascia to the outer lh rear quarter panel . 4 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm hex
remove and discard the bolt and release the clip that attach the bluetooth passive entry module to the body , and then remove the module from the bracket . note use of the following tool is recommended : t30 socket 2 in extension
loosen the bolts that attach the front fascia to the lh front fender . 4 nm figure 2 . lh shown , rh similar
loosen but do not remove the bolts that attach the upper section of the front end carrier to the body .
remove the bolts that attach the compressor bracket to the shock tower brace , and then remove the bracket from the brace . nan nm
secure the clips that attach the windshield electrical harness to the rh apillar area .
install the rear center bracket . see bracket rear center .
make sure that the hood , trunk , and all doors are closed , unless necessary for the work to be performed .
if provided , lock the alignment slip/turn plates of the lift .
move the lifting arms fully outward .
release the clips that attach the electrical harness to the rear center bracket assembly . note the end clip is hidden by the electrical connector .
remove the bolt that attaches the front fascia to the lh front fender . 3 nm figure 3 . lh shown , rh similar
remove the bolts that attach the front end carrier to the crash cans .
install the clip and tabs that attach the rh rear cpillar trim to the body . note pull the rear of the trim forward , and then upward to remove it .
connect the windshield electrical harness to the rh vehicle harness connectors .
install wheel chocks on the wheel that is diagonally across from where the vehicle will be lifted , for example : lift lh front of vehicle : chock rh rear wheel lift rh front of vehicle : chock lh rear wheel lift lh rear of vehicle : chock rh front wheel lift rh rear of vehicle : chock lh front wheel
carefully drive the vehicle onto the lift , and stop the vehicle when equidistant between the front and rear of the lift . tip : have an assistant monitor the vehicle to make that the vehicle is centered on the lift .
position the vehicle centrally between the lift posts , and that the steering wheel is in line with the lift posts .
in toolbox , click actions/autodiag , and then type `` plus '' in the search field .
repeat step 5 through step 8 on the rh side of the vehicle .
remove the bolts that attach the rear center bracket to the body . note use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 4 in extension
carefully pull aside the corner of the front fascia to gain access to the lh fascia side to fender bracket .
move the front end carrier forward , slide the ankle catcher off the front end carrier locating posts , and then remove the ankle catcher from the vehicle .
install the clips that attach the front edge of the headliner to the body .
position the jack stand adapter on the floor jack .
make sure that the hood , liftgate , and all doors are closed , unless necessary for the work to be performed .
position the front and rear lifting arm pads under the vehicle lift points on the hv battery as shown . warning this procedure lifts the vehicle for service operations other than hv battery replacement . when replacing the hv battery , follow lifting instructions within that procedure .
remove the lh 2nd row seatback . see seat back 2nd row lh .
remove the rear center bracket from the vehicle .
remove the bolts that attach the lh fascia side to fender bracket to the lh front fender , and then remove the bracket from the vehicle . figure 4 . lh shown , rh similar
position the ankle carrier onto the front end carrier locating posts , and then slide the ankle catcher into place .
apply masking tape to attach the backlight glass to the body while the urethane cures .
install the lh and rh side rail trims . see trim side rail lh .
position the floor jack under the vehicle lift point , and then carefully raise the floor jack , aligning the jack stand adapter locating pin with the hole at the vehicle lift point . figure 1 . lh rear lift point shown ; other corners similar
make sure that no part of the vehicle is in danger of contacting the ceiling , tool boxes , or other items in the service area when the vehicle is raised . caution if the procedure requires the hood , liftgate , or doors to be open while the vehicle is raised , closely watch their position as the vehicle is being raised to avoid contact with the lift mechanism , ceiling , or objects hanging from the ceiling .
remove the lh front airbag sensor . see sensor impact accelerometer front bumper lh .
install the bolts that attach the rear center bracket to the body . 4 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : 10 mm socket 4 in extension
handtighten the bolts that attach the front end carrier to the crash cans .
lift the vehicle until there is enough clearance for a jack stand under the vehicle , and then place a jack stand under the jack stand adapter . note align the jack stand cutout with the floor jack . note align the top opening of the jack stand with the bottom of the jack stand adapter .
raise the vehicle to the necessary service height , and then engage any lift safety locks .
remove the center front airbag sensor . see sensor impact accelerometer front bumper center .
remove the rh 2nd row seatback . see seat back 2nd row rh .
install the clips that attach the rear bluetooth passive entry antenna electrical harness to the rear center bracket .
torque the bolts that attach the front end carrier to the crash cans . 16 nm
connect the antenna harness to the tuner and body harness .
slowly lower the floor jack , making sure the jack stand is aligned with the jack stand adapter .
make sure that no tools , equipment , other items , or personnel are under the vehicle or under any open doors .
remove the rh front airbag sensor . see sensor impact accelerometer front bumper lh .
install the bolt that attaches the bluetooth passive entry module to the body . 3.5 nm note use of the following tool is recommended : t30 socket 2 in extension
tighten the bolts that attach the upper section of the front end carrier to the body . 16 nm
install the antenna harness clip .
move the floor jack out of the working area .
disengage any lift safety locks , and fully lower the vehicle .
remove and discard the bolts that attach the front bumper with the energy absorbers to the crash cans . tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm socket 3 in extension
release the clips that attach the lh and rh trunk side trims to the vehicle . figure 1 . lh side shown , rh similar
install the bolts that attach the bottom of the cooling fan module to the ankle catcher . 10 nm note lift the condenser fan module up to ease installation of the bolts .
connect the antenna connector to the tuner .
if installing another jack stand on the same axle or same side of the vehicle , repeat steps 3 to 8 . caution to avoid damage , never support the vehicle from diagonal points at the same time .
close any open hood , liftgate , or doors as necessary .
carefully remove the front bumper with the energy absorbers from the vehicle . caution do not damage the body when prying the front bumper . note slightly tap the front bumper with a dead blow hammer to assist with removal of the front bumper .
remove the puddle light connectors from the lh and rh trunk side trims . figure 2 . lh side shown , rh similar
connect the rh harness electrical connector to the heater grid .
connect the electrical connector to the fm antenna amplifier .
make sure no tools or parts are under the vehicle .
remove the foam from the front bumper .
remove the lh and rh trunk side trims from the vehicle . figure 3 . lh side shown , rh similar
install the rh side antenna harness to the backlight glass . note apply a small piece of tape at each end of the seal clip .
install the clip and tabs that attach the lh rear cpillar trim to the body . note pull the rear of the trim forward , and then upward to remove it .
position the floor jack under the jack stand , and then carefully lift the vehicle off of the jack stand .
install the foam onto the new front bumper beam .
remove the lh and rh taillights . see taillight lh .
connect the backlight harness electrical connector to the tuner .
remove the jack stand from under the vehicle .
position the front bumper with energy absorber onto the vehicle .
slowly lower the vehicle until the wheels are touching the ground . caution to avoid injuries , stay clear from the vehicle .
install the new bolts that attach the front bumper with the energy absorbers to the lh and rh crash cans . 75 nm tip : use of the following tool is recommended : 15 mm socket 3 in extension
remove the bolts that attach the lh taillight bracket to the vehicle , and then remove the lh taillight bracket . 4 nm
remove the floor jack from under the vehicle .
install the rh front airbag sensor . see sensor impact accelerometer front bumper lh .
remove the wheel chocks from the vehicle .
install the center front airbag sensor . see sensor impact accelerometer front bumper center .
connect the electrical harness onto the rh front end carrier electrical connector .
connect the electrical harness onto the lh front end carrier electrical connector .
install the front bumper . see bumper beam front .
install the front fascia assembly . see fascia front .
install the lh front crush can into the lh front inner rail . note lightly tap the crush can with a dead blow harmer to assist with installation into the inner rail .
install the electrical harness to the front fascia , and then fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the fascia .
install the bolt that attaches the lh front fender support to the lh front crush can . 35 nm
install the bolts that attach the lh front crush can to the lh front inner rail . 90 nm
install the parking distance sensors to the front fascia , and then fasten the clips that attach the sensors to the fascia . figure 7 . lh front parking assist sensor shown
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the lh front crush can .
adjust the lifting arm pads to the optimum height .
connect the electrical harness to all of the front parking distance sensors connectors . figure 8 . lh front parking assist sensor shown
service mode plus will be enabled , and the `` service mode + '' watermark will appear on the touchscreen .
lift the condenser fan module off of the front subframe , and then install the bolts that attach the bottom of the condenser fan module to the ankle catcher . 10 nm note lift the condenser fan module up to ease installation of the bolts .
install the front turn signal/fog light to the front fascia , and then fasten the tabs that attach the light to the fascia .
when finished performing the tasks that required service mode plus , touch the exit service mode button at the top of the service mode menu . note if the exit service mode button is not visible , touch and hold the tesla `` t '' at the top of the touchscreen , and then type `` service '' into the prompt .
install the front bumper with energy absorbers into the lh and rh crush cans , and then install the bolts that attach the front bumper to the crush cans . 75 nm
repeat step 163 through step 166 for the rh side of the vehicle .
check that the arms are correctly located , and make sure that no part of the vehicle is in danger of contacting the ceiling , tool boxes , or other items in the service area when the vehicle is raised .
install the screws that attach the front turn signal/fog light to the front fascia . 2.8 nm
connect the electrical harness to the rh front airbag sensor connector .
remove the windshield cowl protective strip .
raise the vehicle slightly , and check the following : make sure all 4 pads are in the correct position . check the balance of the vehicle . make sure that the four arms are properly locked and can not rotate . caution if the procedure requires the hood , liftgate , or doors to be open while the vehicle is raised , closely watch their position as the vehicle is being raised to avoid contact with the lift mechanism , ceiling , or objects hanging from the ceiling .
fasten the clips that attach the electrical harness to the front turn signal/fog light .
connect the electrical harness to the center front airbag sensor connector .
raise the vehicle to the necessary service height , and then lower the lift until the safety locks are properly engaged .
connect the electrical harness to the rh front turn signal/fog light connector .
connect the electrical harness to the lh front airbag sensor connector .
disengage any lift safety locks , and fully lower the vehicle . caution to avoid injuries , stay clear from the vehicle .
install the front license plate bracket . see bracket license plate front .
move the lifting arms fully out from under the vehicle , and lower the lifting pads .
perform a radar sensor calibration only if the front radar sensor likely moved outside of its calibration tolerance . see sensor radar front . note if radar sensor calibration is required , add the correction code separately .
connect the backlight glass heater ground strap to the lh cpillar .
connect the lh harness electrical connector to the heater grid .
install the lh side antenna harness from the backlight glass . note apply a small piece of tape at each end of the seal clip .
return the front seats to the original position .
install the fm antenna amplifier . see amplifier antenna fm .
install the lh front airbag sensor . see sensor impact accelerometer front bumper lh .
remove the masking tape from the vehicle after the urethane has cured .
install the clips that attach the rear edge of the headliner to the body .
fasten the clips that attach the screw cover to the lh rear coat hooks , and then push the coat hook to close it .
repeat step 34 through step 39 for the rh side of the vehicle .